"Breminale
The Breminale is a five-day open-air festival on Bremen’s Osterdeich, taking place every summer. The festival offers a wide-ranging programme for everyone. The programme includes live music in circus tents, art, jugglers and jesters, games for kids, as well as theatre, dance and readings. Numerous food stands sell delicious international specialities. A day out at the Breminale can easy carry on into the night.

Sorry, there is no description for this photo available© WFB/Ingo Wagner
Breminale Festival© WFB/Jens Hagens
Cultural highlight on the Weser river
Since the first Breminale in 1987 - which took place on Bremen's market square - the festival, with its combination of musical highlights and cultural diversity, has become a permanent fixture in Bremen's cultural landscape. This is also reflected in the visitor numbers: With 220,000 visitors, a new record was set in 2013.


Hinweis: Mit Aktivierung dieses Inhalts werden Cookies gesetzt

Over 120 Musicians on Eight Stages
A diverse musical experience awaits you on the various stages of the festival. The Radio Bremen stage is the place where talented musicians from Germany and all over the world perform.


If you want to feel the energy of young bands, you will find up-and-coming musicians on the Flut stage.


On the Bretter stage, which literally takes its name from the planks it is built from, you can expect fascinating performances by artists who may not yet be so well known. If you prefer a relaxed atmosphere, then the Parkbühne is the place for you. Here you can enjoy calm music and be enchanted by theatre performances. Inspiring texts are also recited.


The Schleuse stage, on the other hand, offers a mixture of pop music and the sounds of bands from Bremen. Here you can be inspired by rousing melodies and local music.


For those who want to shake a leg, there are the Urlaub and Pappinale Krakinale stages. On the Urlaub stage, DJs provide a great atmosphere, accompanied by a foosball table and a water slide for extra fun. On the Pappinale Krakinale stage, on the other hand, you can move to the music and enjoy a rousing dance atmosphere.


You are also invited to dance on the Muchos Mas stage. Here you can also expect rousing sounds that will encourage you to dance."
