"Donkeys, dogs, cats and roosters are as much a part of Bremen as the Weser. And they literally accompany you every step of the way in the old town. Discover the Bremen Town 
The most famous landmark of the Hanseatic city is the Bremen Town Musicians. A bronze statue by Gerhard Marcks has been commemorating the popular fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm since 1953 in the heart of Bremen. According to the story, a donkey, dog, cat and rooster once set off for the city on the Weser to find a better life.Where are the Bremen Town Musicians?
Small but mighty - hardly any saying is more apt for the bronze sculpture of the Town Musicians than this one. Gerhard Marcks' animals are not life-sized at two meters, but are all the more popular with Bremen residents and visitors. The city's landmark can be found from the market square on the left, western side of the town hall. If you follow the street ""Schoppensteel"", which leads from the Our Lady's Churchyard towards the Domshof, you can't miss the figure at all.A portion of luck
If you have found the Bremen Town Musicians, you will notice the donkey's bare front legs. The reason for this is that it is said to bring good luck to hold the legs. So if you are already there, you should not miss the opportunity to make a wish to the donkey or simply to take a portion of luck with you. But be careful! If you only hold one leg, you will immediately be exposed as a Bremen layman. Because then, as they say here, one donkey shakes hands with the other.Cosmopolitanism has a tradition in Bremen
The Town Musicians once set off for Bremen in search of a secure future. The hope of a good life in the beautiful Weser city is not only shared by the current but also by numerous people who have come to Bremen from all parts of Germany and the world. In the tradition of a cosmopolitan Hanseatic city, Bremen sees immigration as an enrichment and has an active culture of welcome.

This cosmopolitanism has also carried the Town Musicians to other countries around the world, because in addition to the bronze statue at the town hall, there are many other depictions of the world-famous animals."
