 1. Introduction. Location. Tourist Information Centre, corner of the Church of Our Beloved Lady. We wish you a warm welcome to Brayman, the handsiatic city on the river, which is over 1200 years old. Brayman, on the River Vesa, is full of history and tales, exciting worlds of knowledge, and varied culture offers. We are delighted to be able to welcome you to our tradition-steeped cosmopolitan city. For your audio stroll on the historic route through Brayman's Old Town, you will need to follow the specially marked out route. This is shown by the silver and bronze coloured marker points on the pavement, which direct you along our tour through the Old Town. And this is how we'll be guiding you around Brayman's attractions. Please cross the tram tracks in front of the Tourist Information Office carefully, and also watch out for the trams. Once you have arrived on the Market Square and have found a suitable place, we'll start our audio guide tour with the history of Brayman. 2. History. Location. Market Square in front of Becksammarkt, Deutsche Haus. We will begin our historic and maritime sightseeing walk with a few details about Bremen. Neighboring towns Bremen and Bremenhaven, which is located 60 km north, are nowadays surrounded and also separated by another German federal state called Loessachsen. Both cities together form the smallest German state. The pursuit of independence was always of the utmost important for the people of Bremen. In 787 Bremen was established as a diocese under Charles the Great. Around 200 years later, Emperor Charles Otto I granted Bremen market privilege, so the town could develop into a centre of trade. The market settlement turned into a city. In order to preserve its independence, Bremen became a member of the Hanseatic League in 1358, the powerful alliance of cities ranging from Flanders to the Baltic area. Finally, the Imperial immediacy authenticated by the Linz Diploma of 1646 constitutionally confirmed Bremen's autonomy and independence. From then on, Bremen was a free imperial city. From 1806, with the dissolving of the old German Empire, Bremen was regarded as an independent sovereign free state and called itself the free and Hanseatic town of Bremen. In 1871, Bremen became a federal state of the new German Reich. After briefly losing its independence under the National Socialists, Bremen was re-established together with Bremerhaven as an independent federal state in 1947. Nowadays, Bremen is the 10th biggest city in Germany and has around 548,000 residents. It stretches in a long shape along both sides of the Weser River and is around 38 kilometres long and 16 kilometres wide. This means that Bremen has the lowest population density of all large German cities. Bremen's coat of arms is very well known. Maybe you've seen it already in a slightly modified form on a bottle of Bex beer, the worldwide renowned beer from Bremen. A special feature is the silver Bremen Gothic key on a red background. The key is the symbol of Peter the Apostle, the patron of Bremen's Cathedral. It is also interpreted as the key to the Kingdom of Heaven. Bremen is a large, modern city with unmistakable charm. Modern worlds of knowledge like the Universal Bremen or the Overseas Museum present science up close and an attractive promenade with ships and restaurants has developed in the heart of the city on the Weser. The varied cultural life of the traditional strong-willed, Hanseatic city gives Bremen its unique character. The Bremen Theatre, the Shakespeare Company or the many museums, such as the Weserborg Museum of Modern Art for example, one of the first German collectors museums. From the staging of musicals to big operas, down to its own theatreship, there's something here for everyone's tastes. Bremen's most important economic sectors are the automobile industry, aerospace technology, logistics, electrical and mechanical engineering, plus the grocery and luxury food industry. Have a look at the inscription on the Deutsches Haus in front of you. In English this is translated as in memory of the brothers who share the fate of our separation. Erected as a gild-hauled café using fragments of old houses taken from the old town, the house that bears this admonitory inscription has been reminiscent of the Division of Germany ever since its reconstruction in 1951. Now please set off for the middle of the market square to the side of the Roland statue. 5. Roland. Location, middle of the market square. Direction of view, to the statue of the Bremer Roland. Nothing illustrates the pursuit of legal and municipal independence more than Bremen's traditional landmark, the Roland. It is one of the oldest statues in Germany, which can still be found on its market square today. In Europe, there were a total of 55 Roland statues, of which 20 survived. The Roland in Bremen is therefore not the only Roland statue in Germany, but the oldest, most representative, most famous, and standing at 5.55 meters tall, is the biggest of the German statues. And together with the town hall, it is on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. But who was Roland? According to the Roland legend, Roland was a margrave from Brittany and was thought to be the nephew or illegitimate son of Emperor Charles the Great. Roland the Hero is said to have saved the army of Charles the Great in a battle against the Basques. The Roland legend originates from the old French song, La Chanson de Roland, from 1100. In 1404, Bremen's town council had the Roland statue built out of limestone, in token of the Bremen patricians claiming lordship over the city. Roland was originally made of wood, but was burned down by mercenary soldiers of the archbishop in 1366. Now, take a closer look at the Roland statue. The youthful cavalier is dressed very much in the fashions of the year 1400. With a tight-fitting leather jerkin over a chainmail shirt, a heavy linked belt, armor-clad knees, splintered legs, and long wavy hair. He is carrying a shield with the double-headed imperial eagle. The shield bears the inscription translated into English, Freedom I proclaim to you, as given forsooth by Charles and many another prince to this city. Thank God for it, this much I advise you. The drawn sword in Roland's hand is regarded as a symbol of justice, for the chief magistrate also sat at the judgment place holding a drawn sword. His long hair is the symbol of a free man, especially the knight, who was the ideal figure of that time. Can you also see the little face between Roland's feet? Legend has it that the countess Emma von Liesem wanted to give the Bremen people a meadow, so big that it would take a man a day to run around it. Herzog Benno, her companion and heir, chose a man without legs, who in the year 1032 used all of his strength to crawl around the Burgervider field, winning the land for the residents. From 1866 the northern part of the Burgervider was turned into a recreational park, which today serves the people of Bremen as a green oasis, and is one of the most important landscape parks in Germany. The distance between Roland's knees is around 55 cm. This corresponds to the historic length measurement of the old Bremer Eller unit of measure. The distance between the knees is said to have been used to measure fabrics in the past. The Bremer Eller is still used to take measurements in science and technology today. This distance is even used internationally as an important special measurement known as LMR, Length Measurement Roland, in special applications in space travel, underwater location or aircraft construction. The head of the Bremen landmark had to be exchanged in the year 1983. The reason for this was air pollution, which had done considerable damage to the statue. The original head can now be found in the Fokker Museum. The Roland statue proudly smiles in the direction of the cathedral, the official seat of the Archbishop, who had a secular claim to power over Bremen. With his defiant look he was said to make the Archbishop realise that the people of Bremen would not take any more orders from him, as according to the inscription on the shield, Emperor Charles had already promised them great freedom. This interpretation sounds plausible, but does not, however, necessarily correspond to the historic facts. Alternatively, one says that Roland is looking in the direction of Hamburger Straße to welcome the merchants coming from the Hanseatic city of Hamburg with Reich freedom and market rights. Legend has it that Bremen will never found her, as long as Roland is still standing. In order to prevent Roland from being damaged, the people of Bremen have fenced him in. The wall built around him during the Second World War even survived the bombs. Rumour has it that the Bremen people also have a replacement Roland in the councillor's cellar of the town hall for emergencies. Only the mayor is said to know where the emergency Roland is kept. Since the very beginning, Roland has been regarded as a landmark and patron saint of the city. Every year on the 5th of November, Roland's birthday is treated like that of a family member. The people of Bremen honour him with flowers. If you turn around, you will be looking directly at an eye-catching modern building, the Bremen House of State Parliament. Look for a suitable place next to the so-called Bremer Loch, a sort of manhole cover in the paving stones of the market square. It can be found on the left next to the House of State Parliament. By the way, if you drop a coin into the slot, you will hear the sounds of the Bremen town musicians. The money is donated to the Wilhelm-Kaizen-Bürgerhilfe aid organisation. 3. Market Square. Location, middle of the Market Square. Direction of view, on the Hanseatic cross down onto the pavement, and also to the houses in the northwest. It is the heart of the city, the Bremen Market Square. This is the place where Bremen was founded. The first people settled here on a former sand dune, and this is where Bremen's history unfolded, around the Market Square. Can you see the pattern incorporated into the cobbles of the marketplace inside the circle of columns? It is designed with darker stones so that a ten-spoked wheel is visible, the centre of which depicts a Hanseatic cross formed with reddish stones. The Hanseatic cross was founded by the Hanseatic cities after 1813 as a badge of honour for the Hanseatic participants of the freedom wars against Napoleon, and then reinstated as a medal in the First World War. Today, it is the most striking ground symbol of the city. Please note that it may be covered up if there are events taking place on the Market Square. Known as one of the most beautiful squares in Europe, the Market Square is a magnet and meeting point for millions of tourists. If you agree that so many people can't all be mistaken, then this square with its historic atmosphere will definitely appeal to you too. In the summer, you can observe the hustle and bustle and watch Bremen's residents and their guests pass by, while enjoying a delicious piece of cake in the outdoor area of the adjoining café. But perhaps it will also be the scene of fun celebrations, like during the Samba Carnival, the La Estrada Street Circus Festival, the Christmas Market, the Free Market, or the Music Festival, when the Market Square shines in all its festive glory. The Bremen Market Square is a work of art of urban planning, which developed from an early medieval trading centre. The square has always belonged to the people who gathered here, whether for exchanging goods or defence. Up until the 18th century, a large part of the public life in Bremen was played out here, on the Market Square. The city fort held its court here under the arcades. Decisions and laws of the town council court, and even death sentences, were pronounced from the balcony of the town hall. Great victories were also celebrated on the square, like after the Thirty Years' War, after the Seven Years' War, after the victory over Napoleon, or the reclamation of the city's own freedom in the year 1814. And still today, fans enjoy celebrating the wins of their football club, Werder Bremen, here. Now, have a look at the building on the north-west side of the Market Square, with the Sparcasse Bank and the Chemist, which can be seen opposite the rear of the Roland statue. These houses are not originals. After they were destroyed during the Second World War, they were converted or rebuilt. So, in 1958, the modern Sparcasse Bank building was hidden behind the Rococo façade of a townhouse. Which was once located on the banks of the Weser. Next to the Sparcasse Bank, on the west side, is the city council's pharmacy from 1896. The elaborate neo-Renaissance decoration of which was the result of a competition to improve the city's appearance. Now, turn to face the right side, in a north-easterly direction. Behind the tram tracks, you will spot the biggest piece de resistance of the Market Square. The magnificent Town Hall, which is more than 600 years old. Here, you will experience fascinating history first-hand. 4. Town Hall. Location, middle of the market square. Direction of view, Town Hall in the North East. The Town Hall was built between 1405 and 1410 as a market and council hall in Gothic style and is the most significant building that the city has ever constructed. The council of the city needed its own house and meeting place for its tasks. The area of the Town Hall therefore also corresponded to the number of citizens who were entitled to vote. 1612. In this year the Bremen master builder, Luder von Bentheim, gave the early Gothic Town Hall building its ornate façade, in the outstanding style of the late Renaissance in North Germany, the so-called Weser Renaissance. And who do you think influenced the architectural forms and façade sculptures? The Dutch architects and sculptors who shared the same beliefs. As one of Germany's most beautiful Town Halls, the ensemble of the old and new buildings, together with the Roland statue opposite, has belonged to the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites since 2004. It is an extraordinary late medieval Town Hall and stands for the municipal freedom of a city republic. As testified by the UNESCO experts, the Town Hall and the Roland of Bremen are a unique testimony to the civic autonomy and political sovereignty which evolved in the Holy Roman Empire. They even highlight the outstanding form of the Weser Renaissance in their reasoning. The eight monumental sculptures on the market façade are also very interesting. Cast a glance at the larger-than-life figures and recognize Emperor Charles the Great and the seven electors on the left. These figures illustrate Bremen's imperial claim to freedom of the Reich, and therefore the city's independence from religious rulers. And what is hidden inside the Town Hall? The two floors are each made up of one Gothic Hall, the lower and the upper halls. In the upper hall of the Town Hall, the Council of the City once got together to make decisions, develop policies and administer justice over the citizens. The upper hall is nowadays a representation hall, with the ostentatious so-called Golden Chamber, and richly furnished with wall paintings, decorated doorways and wooden carvings. It is regarded as Bremen's most beautiful ballroom. The Forbes Veda painter Heinrich Vogler designed the Golden Chamber in 1905, in Art Nouveau style, with lots of images of nature. The lower hall, one of the most beautiful Gothic secular buildings in Germany, is still almost preserved in its original form. The three-aisled hall, supported by octagonal oak wood pillars, has ornamental Gothic doorways in the east and west. It was previously used for market purposes or theatre performances. Nowadays, alternating exhibitions take place here. If you head off in the direction of the Cathedral later on, you can admire the new Town Hall in the back of the old building. Architect Gabriel von Seidel attached the new building in the Neo-Renaissance style as a harmonious extension onto the old Town Hall at the beginning of the 20th century. In the new Town Hall, you can admire, for example, the Gobelin Room, which was named after a large French tapestry from the 17th century and was originally planned as a mayor's room. Today, the room is used as a small reception and consultation room and is also ideal for civil weddings. The Bremen Federal State Parliament holds meetings every week in the Senate Room. The mayor of Bremen is the prime minister of the state and also has his official residence in the Town Hall. If you'd like to find out more about the Town Hall, you can participate in a special Town Hall tour led by the Bremen Tourism Office. Now, turn to face the Roland statue, which was built as a symbol of Hanseatic freedom. 7. Schütting. Location? In front of the Schütting on the market square. Direction of view? Southwest. You are now looking directly at the so-called Schütting. Nowadays the building is home to the Chamber of Commerce. The word Schütting comes from Schossen, which signified the paying of taxes. Between 1537 and 1538 the Antwerp master builder, Johan den Bueschener, constructed the Schütting we know today as a guildhall for Bremen merchants. Built in the Flanders style of the Renaissance buildings, it magnificently complements the town hall and highlights the status and affluence of the merchants in Bremen. The late Gothic West Gable is preserved in its original form. The East Gable, on the other hand, is a wonderful example of the early Renaissance in Bremen. The market front, which you are looking at, was redesigned in 1594 with elements from the Weser Renaissance. Subsequent changes were regularly made, such as, for example, the ostentatious neo-Baroque doorway with a flight of stairs that was only added in the 19th century. Above the doorway you can read the well-known quote by the mayor of Bremen, writer and journalist Otto Gildermeister. Buden und Binnen, Wagen und Winnen. The literal translation is... Outside and in, dare and win. This describes the daring nature, risk and profit of Bremen's trade within Germany, Binnen and overseas, Buten. Above the lower windows you can see the coat of arms of the Hanseatic cities of Hamburg and Lübeck and the Hanseatic contours of Bergen, Brugge, London and Novgorod. During the Second World War all but the outer walls of the Schütting were burnt down and it was then rebuilt within these old outer walls. Some more background information for coffee lovers. One of the first coffee houses in German-speaking countries opened in 1697 in Schütting. Now follow the Nagelroute, which follows along the left side of the Schütting through the Schüttingstrasse and walk to the entrance of the Bütcherstrasse to see the golden relief. 8. Bütcherstrasse. Locations in turn. In front of the Golden Relief, Handwerkerhof, and the Glockenspiel. Shining above the entrance to Bütcherstrasse is the golden relief plate entitled Der Lichtbringer by the artist Bernhard Hütke from Forbeswede. The relief marks the entrance to a street which was created from 1922 to 1931 when Germany was still reeling from its humiliating defeat in the First World War. Coffee merchant Ludwig Roselius financed the new buildings of this street to symbolize a renewal of Germany from low German-Anglo-Saxon tradition. The Lichtbringer was created in 1936 after the street with its architecture, in particular the abstract brick relief above the street entrance, which is no longer visible today, had become the target of National Socialist propaganda. It portrays the battle between the Archangel Michael and the Dragon of Hell, interpreted as a triumph of divine power over the demonic Kingdom of Darkness. You have now arrived in the 110-meter long secret main street of Bremen. The renowned pedestrian passage of the Bütcherstrasse is regarded as a synonym for lifestyle. Before you continue, have a look up at the building in front of you. High above, on the right-hand side of the gable, you will recognize the sandstone figures of the so-called Seven Lazy Brothers. The Seven Lazy Brothers are figures of a well-known Bremen fable by Bremen folktales writer Friedrich Wagenfeld. There were once seven brothers who were too lazy to fetch water from the river Weser. So they built a well and laid pipelines. Nor could they be bothered to pull their wheelbarrows out of the mud or to go to the forest to collect wood. So they paved the streets and planted trees. What do you think? Is this laziness or innovation? Decide for yourself. Now walk a little way along the street until you discover the Handwerkerhof craft center on the left. The Bütcherstrasse was once the narrow street of the Bötigmacher, barrel makers and coopers. During the Middle Ages, the street was an important connection between the market square and the Weser. When the harbour and all of its contract suppliers were relocated in the mid-19th century, the Bütcherstrasse went into decline. Another two artworks by Hütger adorn the Handwerkerhof. A bust of Ludwig Roselius, Bremen coffee merchant and inventor of the first decaffeinated coffee, Café Haag, and a well by the Seven Lazy Brothers, who are highlighted again here. Right next to the Handwerkerhof craft center is the Paula Modersohn Becker Museum, the first museum in the world which was dedicated to the work of an artist. Paintings from all creative phases of the most renowned German painter prove her outstanding significance as a pioneer of modern painting around 1900. Continue following the Nagelroute until you reach the Glockenspiel. Can you perhaps hear the sound of bells ringing? Then you're in luck! From May to December, every hour on the hour, between 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock, the 30 Meissner porcelain bells chime between the gables, and have done ever since 1934. And the house of the Glockenspiel on the neighboring tower displays ten carved and painted wooden panels depicting ocean conquerors and aviation pioneers by sculptor Bernhard Hütger. Ludwig Roselius paid tribute to bridge builders between Europe and America, such as, for example, Viking Leif Erikson, discoverer Christopher Columbus, the aeronaut Graf Zeppelin, or the crew of the Bremen, which was the first airplane to cross the Atlantic non-stop in an east-west direction, and is nowadays exhibited at the Bremen airport. Please continue your tour and continue walking along the Böttcherstrasse until you come to the aquarium, a few meters behind the Glockenspiel Square on the right-hand side. If you'd like to take a breather, sit on the bench. Between the years 1922 to 1931, Roselius redesigned the Böttcherstrasse into a complete work of art and gradually bought the seven houses on the street. Every house has its own name. The main architects were Alfred Runge, Edward Scotland, and Bernhard Hütger. Hütger designed the Paula Modesson Becker House and the Atlantis House, in which today the Hilton Hotel and the impressive Blue White Heaven Hall can be found. Opposite this, you will see the Robinson Crusoe House. The writer, Daniel Defoe, felt a connection to the city of Bremen and declared his novel's hero, Robinson Crusoe, as the son of a Bremen merchant. Badly damaged during the Second World War, the facades of the houses on the Böttcherstrasse were already rebuilt by the year 1954, mostly with funding from the Café Haag company. Nowadays, the tradition-steeped Böttcherstrasse, with its unusual architecture, is a little handicraft paradise, with small shops, gastronomy, the Bremen Casino, museums and workshops. Hütger designed the traditional red-brick architecture of the passage with Art Nouveau and Art Deco elements. The street's art collections include the museum in the Roselius House and the Paula Modesson Becker Museum and form the architectural and cultural highlight of the Böttcherstrasse. Now, please follow the markings through the underpass to the Weser Promenade by the river. Here you will see the ship jetty, which is known as the Martini landing stage. 9. Martini Church landing stage Location, Weser Schlachter Promenade below the Martini Church at the Martini Landing Stage kiosk. The Martini Landing Stage below the Martini Church is the landing stage of the passenger and cruise vessels on the Weser Schlachter Promenade. Get to know the maritime side of Bremen and embark on a Weser and harbour tour on historic or modern ships. You can also travel from here to Wegesack in the north. And it's only 60 kilometres downstream from here to Bremerhaven. Walk a few steps along the ship landing stage. The historic Evangelical St. Martini Church, which gave the landing stage its name, soars in the direction of the old town. It is the smallest, youngest and also most picturesque of the total of four old Bremen parish churches and was initially built as a three-aisled basilica around the year 1229. In the 14th century, it was extended into a hall church. Around two centuries later, a vicarage was built, the Neanderhaus. This was named after Joachim Neander, who lived in the house and wrote the world-famous church hymn, Praise to the Lord. Incidentally, the Neanderthal valley was named after him and this is where the remains of the earliest human species were later found. The late Gothic red brick building was badly damaged during the Second World War, but then rebuilt again in the post-war period. Relax a little by the Weser and enjoy the maritime flair in the traditional harbour and trading city of Bremen. We would also like to tell you a bit about the life around the river and the Weser Schlachterpromenade. 10. Schlachte, location Weser Schlachte Promenade And what actually is the Schlachte you may be asking? This is the name for the built-out bank of the river Weser that served as a landing place and which was constructed as far back as the year 1250 using driven-in wooden posts and wattle work. The name Schlachte itself is derived from the Low German word Schlagte which comes from the German word Schlagen, to hit. From around the year 1200 the Schlachte formed the main Bremen harbour. However, the siltation of the Weser and increasing loaded draft of the ships meant that as early as the 16th century the larger ships were no longer able to use the Schlachte. Then, in the year 1623, by order of the Bremen town council, architect Jakob Claussen finished off his work on one of the first artificial seaports in Germany, the harbour of Wegesack in the north of Bremen. The harbour's period of prosperity lasted until 1820, as due to the siltation it also became possible for larger ships to reach Wegesack. This made the founding of another harbour necessary. In the year 1827 the former mayor Johann Schmidt bought a piece of land in Lower Saxony on which to build a harbour at the mouth of the river Weser. This developed into a promising sea harbour, which is the Bremerhaven we know today, and which as a consolidation of the Lower Weser towns of Bremerhaven, Leher, Geestermunde, was temporarily called Wesermunde. By doing this, Schmidt enabled Bremen free access to the sea. Little roads used to lead from the old town to the Schlachte, the so-called Schlachtgates. The Schlachte was situated outside of the city walls and could only be reached through the Schlachtgates. The first, second and last gates are still marked on maps of the city today and have been retained as street names. The rebuilding and redesigning of the Schlachte promenade began on the banks of the river as part of the Expo 2000, with its motto, People, Nature, Technology. The people of Bremen rediscovered their city by the river. Today the Schlachte is the scene of pulsating city life. Whether watching the ships, strolling, laughing and enjoying, eating, drinking or celebrating parties, the Schlachte is simply a fun place to be. In fine weather, the terraces and gardens of a variety of different international restaurants and cafes are the ideal place to enjoy the views over the water and the historic and modern ships. At the Schlachte you can also admire the Kog ship, a replica of the historic Hanseatic vessel from the 13th and 14th centuries, or the three-masted frigate Admiral Nelson, a rustic pancake ship which is anchored right opposite the Martini church. Every Saturday in the summer season you can browse the stalls at the Cajun market along the Weser promenade for antique and useful items. In the advent period, the Schlachte magic market takes place against a historic, wintry and maritime backdrop. Now return to the markings on the ground, which run along the left side of the kiosk at the Martini landing stage at the underpass, and walk on a short distance along the left of the Weser in a south-easterly direction. You will pass by the theatre ship and along the arcades. International trade, harbours and shipping, and quality products from highly modern industries characterize the economic life in Bremen. Products from the Bremen grocery and luxury food product industry in particular, such as wine, beer, tea, chocolate, sausage and meat products, fish, cereals, or tropical fruits, for example, have made a name for themselves all around the world. And also, 50% of the coffee drunk in Germany passes through the harbour of Bremen. On the opposite side of the Weser, you can also see the building of the German lifeboat institution, which is based here in Bremen. This was founded in 1865, is financed by donations, and serves as an emergency headquarters for ships in distress at sea. Right next to it, also on the other side of the Weser, the building of the former waterworks. It looks like an upside-down chest of drawers, and was the first waterworks in Bremen. The historic water tower, which is over 100 years old, was earlier used to ensure the required water pressure in the city's water supply for the Bremen population. Continue following the markings on the pavement and leave the Weser behind. Cross through the underpass and go up the steps on the right. Now, walk on a short distance along the street. Turn left onto the street Hinter der Holzpforte, and immerse yourself in a world of a very special Bremen quarter. Now continue on to the small square in front of the Geschichtenhaus. Please press the pause button until you reach the square. 11. Schnoor Locations Wüsterstätte, Schnoor, Staffendam, corner of Kölpinkstraße and St. Johann Church Now you have arrived in Bremen's oldest preserved quarter, the Schnoor. In 1959, the Schnoor quarter was the first larger group of buildings in Germany to be recognized as a historic monument worth protecting. Join us on an idyllic journey back in time. You are now in the so-called Wüsterstätte, deserted place. This is a small, picturesque square reminiscent of the area that lay waste after the 17th century fire. On the left side, the Bremen Story House awaits its visitors. Costumed actors, dressed up as famous historic people from Bremen, will transport you and all of your senses back in time to Bremen's past. Further along the markings through the narrow alleys, you will now see the wedding house on the right-hand side at Schnoor No. 5. In the Middle Ages, couples who came to Bremen from the countryside were only allowed to marry in the city cathedral if they could prove they also had an abode there. This is where the wedding houses came in. The green half-timbered house is linked to this tradition and with a total of 43 square meters, is one of the smallest hotels in the world. If you'd like to test out this cozy wedding house for yourself, here's the good news. Nowadays, it can also be rented for two people. You can really relax in this marital abode over three small floors with its own whirlpool and four-poster bed below the roof. And these days, it's not only married couples who can enjoy it. Now, please cross the narrow alley and turn left into the Schnoor Street. Walk down the street along the markings until you come to a small square while continuing to listen. Have a look around you and soak up this picturesque setting. This street gave the smallest district of Bremen its name. But where does the name Schnoor come from, you may be asking. Look along the houses. Do you notice anything? Schnoor is Low German and means Schnur, the word for string, as here the small and lovingly restored houses from the 15th and 16th centuries are set close together like a string of pearls, which follow the course of the Balger, the former weiser distributory. The so-called Stavendamm on the small square was named after the Staven, the medieval public baths. In particular, the fountain, which you can see here, is reminiscent of this place of hygiene. However, the bath houses were not only used for bathing. It is said that men and women also used them as places of immoral activity. Now let's walk along the markings past the café until the next corner at the Gasthof. Stay standing on this corner for a moment. In the Kolpingstraße on the right-hand side, you will notice a very new orange-coloured building complex, the Burgitten Monastery with Guesthouse, Cloistered Area and Chapel. It was constructed between 2001 and 2002 as the first monastery building in Bremen since the Middle Ages and is made up of three connecting structures. Now walk left along the markings and down the street Lange Wierung. St. Johann Church In front of you now is the St. Johann Church, which was built by the Franciscans from the 14th century. It is the only Catholic church in Bremen's centre and also houses a private school. Nowadays, the majority of people in Bremen are Protestants. Only 12% are Catholic. Notice the simple design and the two corner towers. There is no grand church tower rising up into the sky. This is due to the fact that it was originally the Franciscan monastery which used the church. After being used for different purposes, it has served as a Catholic place of worship again since 1823. If you have the time to view the interior of the Gothic Hall Church, you will find a modern and simple design there too. Now it's time to leave the Schnoor Quarter. Follow the markings and use the steps. Or, if you prefer to avoid the steps, there is another alternative. All you have to do is walk back down the street and take two left turns. You will come to the tram junction Domsheide, a large crossroads. Please cross the road carefully and watch out for the trams and buses. Follow the markings on the ground in the direction of the cathedral and cross over the tram tracks again. When you have reached the cathedral, please look for a suitable place with a view of the statue on the front side. 12. St. Peter's Cathedral. Location, between the Cathedral and Town Hall. Direction of view, front side with the main entrance of the Cathedral. 1,200 years. This is the proud age of the magnificent St. Peter's Cathedral in Brayman, with its enthralling history, which you are standing in front of right now. Here, on the natural and highest point of a sand dune, around 10 metres above flood level, is where the Diocese of Brayman was founded. On the left side of the right Cathedral doorway, you will see the namesake, Patrus. The Holy Apostle, St. Patrus, is the patron of the Brayman Cathedral, and in the coat of arms of the old Brayman Diocese, holds a key, which represents the key to Heaven. The central figure is the founder, Emperor Charles the Great, who is holding a model of the Cathedral. Charles the Great consecrated the English missionary, Villahad, as a missionary bishop in the year 787. On the elevation of the dunes, on which Brayman originated, in 789, Bishop Villahad erected the prototype of the Cathedral, a small wooden church, which was, however, destroyed shortly afterwards. A few days later, Villahad died at the age of 44 years old. His mortal remains can be found as relics in the Cathedral. From 1072 to 1101, Archbishop Limar ultimately called for the construction of a Romanic Cathedral as a three-aisled pillar basilica with two crypts. The Romanesque-style West Crypt, which was still completed under his predecessor, Adalbert, in 1066, forms the oldest preserved part of the Cathedral today. There were regular additions, alterations, and renovations way into the 20th century. Now have a glance up at the mighty towers, which soar up to a height of 98 meters. The two-tower front was constructed in the 13th century and ensured that the Cathedral retained its early Gothic character. Sweden annexed the Archbishopric of Brayman after the Thirty Years' War, and so the Cathedral and the former Cathedral immunity became Swedish and subsequently Hanoverian. Only in 1803 did the Cathedral area fall back into the hands of the city of Brayman. For almost the entire 19th century the Cathedral went to rack and ruin with the half-collapsed South Tower. Only from 1888 onwards did an extensive, improving as well as historically distorting restoration begin, following the ideas of the Cathedral architect Max Salzmann. The Cathedral was barely affected by the bombing in the Second World War. In the 1970s, underfloor heating was to be installed, but during the building work numerous Archbishops' graves were exposed and significant findings were made. The Cathedral Museum in the Evangelical St. Peter's Cathedral shows the restored discoveries, like the altar furnishings, sacred scriptures, stone sculptures, textiles and mural paintings. In an adjacent building of the Brayman Cathedral is also the Lead Cellar, in which you can view eight mummified bodies and relics from the cloister of the Cathedral. You can reach the Lead Cellar via the so-called Bible Garden. Perhaps you have heard of the writer Freiherr von Knigge, best remembered for his book On Human Relations. His final resting place can be found inside the nave. And in case you want to give your ears a treat, every Thursday evening in the Cathedral superb concerts are offered, with free entry featuring organ, chamber or choir music by Johann Sebastian Bach for example. To the left of the doorway you cannot miss the equestrian monument of the former Reich Chancellor Otto von Bismarck. This is a piece of work by renowned sculptor Adolf von Hildebrand. By 1871, the year the Reich was founded, Bismarck had already been elected as an honorary citizen of Brayman, and is portrayed here in a riding pose. Among the German Bismarck monuments this is a big exception. Generally speaking, equestrian statues had always been reserved for monarchs. 13. Town Musicians Location, Between the Town Hall and the Church of Our Beloved Lady Another Bremen landmark and popular photo location for tourists, the Town Musicians of Bremen. This fairy tale has made Bremen famous all over the world. Spare a moment to look at the bronze sculpture by Professor Gerhard Marx on the west side of the Town Hall from the year 1951. Back then, Marx specifically chose this place. Is this what you imagined the Town Musicians to look like? Many tourists say, my, aren't they small? But size isn't everything. The traditional fairy tale of the Town Musicians was already well known in the 12th century. After all, the story written by the Brothers Grimm was entitled The Bremen Town Musicians. Close your eyes and think back to how the tale goes. We are going to Bremen. You can find something better than death everywhere, said the donkey to the rooster, and suggested traveling to Bremen to become Town Musicians. The four animals, donkey, dog, cat, and rooster, are too old to be useful to their owners and fear being killed. The animals are able to escape this grisly fate and bump into each other by chance. The donkey suggests becoming Town Musicians in Bremen. So, the animals set off on their journey to Bremen together. It is not possible, however, to reach the city in the same day, so they have to spend the night in the woods. There, the four journeymen come across a robber's house where they scare and drive away the robbers with trickery and loud bellowing. As the Bremen Town Musicians like the house so much, they don't want to leave, so that is where they happily spend the rest of their days. In the 13th century, Bremen, as an aspiring trading town, allowed merchants to come to the city, and with them also came jugglers and musicians. The city council allowed the Town Musicians to play music at festivals and from the top of the tower, and these Town Musicians always picked up other traveling musicians on their way, just like in the fairy tale. But what is actually behind the vibrant story of the four animals? For us, the moral of the fairy tale is that only by acting together can the weak prevail over the strong. Strength comes in numbers. Now it's your turn. It's not only Bremen's residents who are allowed to make a wish by touching both forelegs of the donkey with both hands, but please don't touch it with one hand, otherwise one donkey will say to another, good day, as one says in Bremen. You can make one wish that will then come true. That's a promise. But we can't actually predict when this will happen. Of course, you cannot tell anyone what you have wished for. Stroking the donkey's nose will also bring you good luck. This monument of the Bremen Town Musicians by Gerhard Marx is the most renowned of all interpretations. Gerhard Marx was one of the most important German sculptors of the 20th century. When he was still alive in 1971, Bremen devoted a museum to Marx, the Gerhard Marx House, which accommodates the Gerhard Marx Foundation. Incidentally, there are figures of the town musicians everywhere in Bremen. Just have a look around to see how many you can discover. We have now reached the end of our audio guide tour on the historic route through Bremen's old town. Thank you very much for your interest. We hope you enjoy the rest of your stay in our city, for there is so much more to discover. From the Weser Schlachter Promenade to the fascination space travel with the Columbus Space Module of the International Space Station, down to highly enjoyable events like the Bremen Free Market, the Christmas Market, or Schlachter Magic. Bremen is well worth a visit. Perhaps you would also like to be personally shown around the city by a tour guide. Then we recommend our two-hour sightseeing tour through the historic city center, which we offer every day at 2 p.m. Maybe a sightseeing tour, our town hall tour, a guided tour of the council cellar of the town hall, or the space travel tour might also be of interest to you. We will be happy to inform you at the Tourist Information Center. Please return your audio guide to the Tourist Information Center on Obernstrasse as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention, and we would be grateful for your comments.


Freimarkt Bremen - The Biggest Funfair in Nothern Germany
Freimarkt
Freimarkt Bremen - The Biggest Funfair in Nothern Germany
When it's called "Ischa Freimaak", Bremen's fifth season begins! Spectacular merry-go-rounds, tempting treats, a lively atmosphere and lots of fun for young and old - let the Bremen Freimarkt take you away!
Every year in October, the fifth season begins in Bremen: For 17 days the motto on the Bürgerweide and in the city centre is: Ischa Freimaak! The scent of candy cotton and roasted almonds fills the air, rides provide adrenaline while children's eyes light up at the sight of balloons and gingerbread hearts. Here you can find out everything you need to know about the Freimarkt and which dates you shouldn't miss!
When and Where
989th Freimarkt 2024
from 18th October to 3rd November 2024
✔ on Bremen's Bürgerweide (Bremen Fair), Bremen's market square and around the Liebfrauenkirche (Church of Our Lady)
Facts about the Freimarkt
✔ 1st Freimarkt: 1035
✔ Showmen: over 300
Rides: around 40
Event area: 100,000 square metres (Bürgerweide)
Ischa Freimaak - Cheeky and Cheerful, Wild and Whirling, Cosy and Sociable
The largest fair in the north attracts many people every year with its many colourful rides and a lot of good atmosphere. Over 300 showmen and women provide entertainment with their stalls, stands and rides at the traditional Freimarkt. There is plenty to discover both on the Bürgerweide and in the city centre at the "Kleiner Freimarkt". Culinary delights include fragrant gingerbread hearts, red candy apples, steaming lard cakes and many other delicacies. The merry-go-rounds are also the place to be: whether fast and high or leisurely and relaxed - there's something for the adventurous as well as the faint-hearted on one of the 40 or so rides! Meanwhile, it's time to get down to earth in one of the marquees at Bremen's Freimarkt. Here, during the opening hours of the Freimarkt, you can sway to the music and celebrate in a lively atmosphere.
The Small Freimarkt
In the city centre is a small funfair, too. Everything is under the sign of "Ischa Freimaak" and fairground fun, because the Freimarkt also has a little brother there! The "Little Freimarkt" takes you on a journey through time: In addition to nostalgic carousels, you'll also find old-established stalls. On the whole, the market square is a little more peaceful than the Bürgerweide. That's why smaller visitors in particular feel at home here.
Party Time in Halle 7
As soon as the stalls and merry-go-rounds close their doors, there will be pure party action in Hall 7 right next to the Freimarkt grounds. Look forward to various guest stars, a VIP area and much more. Hall 7 is open daily from 9 pm except Tuesdays and Sundays.
Opening Fireworks
The first Freimarkt evening traditionally awaits you with a special highlight! A magnificent firework display gives a preview of the colourful joy that will dominate the Volksfest grounds for the next 17 days. The fireworks start at
approx. 9:45 pm
. The fireworks will be set off in the Bürgerpark and will feature 10 simultaneous shots as well as figure bombs. The Ferris wheel and its passengers will stop right at the start of the fireworks. If you're lucky, you'll get a seat in the front row and can watch the fireworks from close up and from above. If you are strolling through the Freimarkt, you will have a better or worse view depending on where you are. This is why many visitors are drawn to Eickedorferstrasse or Findorffstrasse in the direction of Bürgerpark. Here the view of the fireworks is a little more unobstructed.
Scents and Lights Beckon - Ischa Freimaak
The Freimarkt has been attracting crowds for a very long time, as the footage from the Landesfilmarchiv from the 1960s shows. The fifth season is, of course, much older - almost 1000 years. The first Freimarkt took place in 1035, making it one of the oldest public festivals in Germany. The historic Freimarkt, which stretches from the town hall to the Liebfrauenkirche (Church of Our Lady) between Bremen's magnificent buildings, takes you back to its beginnings.
The Freimarkt Parade
In addition to the opening fireworks, the Freimarkt parade is a very special highlight of the festival for many Freimarkt fans. Always on the second Saturday of the Freimarkt season, the parade attracts thousands of spectators to the streets of Bremen's New Town and city centre. You can look forward to colourfully dressed-up groups, marching bands and floats, as well as a sweet or two cheerfully thrown into the crowd by those riding along. The spectacle ends with the awarding of prizes to the most beautiful and imaginative floats. The parade can also be followed on North German television.
Freimarkt Map
Get an overview: Funfair rides, roller coasters and railways, pubs and children's rides.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
Osterwiese
Bremen for Every Occasion
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Bremen for Every Occasion
No matter how you want to spend your vacation, we have the right ideas for you.
You are planning your next vacation to Bremen and are looking for things to do? We have gathered a list of tips according to different themes and interests. Get to know Bremen from its culinary, adventurous, cultural, or relaxed side and tailor your vacation to your needs and preferences!
Bremen for Groups
Whether it is a day trip, guided tour, or weekend excursion - Bremen is simply ideal for every type of group, no matter if large or small. Discover guided tours, accommodations, and package deals from the
Bremen Tourist Office
.
Group Offers
Fun Weekend Break in Bremen
Bremen for Bicycle Travellers
We have collected various tips and exciting offers for you with respect to the topic
cycling in Bremen
. Time to get on your bicycle and ready, set, go!
Bremen for Lovers
Enjoy romantic days with your partner in crime in Bremen and explore the city together. Check out our ideas for special dates and romantic activities.
Recommendations for Romantic Activities in the Hanseatic City of Bremen
Bremen for Budget Travellers
A city trip does not always have to be expensive. With our recommendations for smart spenders, you can find out where leisure activities in Bremen do not cost much or are even completely free of charge.
Bremen for Business Travellers
Are you visiting the Hanseatic city on business and interested in seeing more than just the inside of a conference hotel or exhibition centre? We want to show you what this beautiful city by the river has to offer and how to make the most of your business trip!
Bremen for Gourmet Fans
Attention food-lovers: Bremen makes your culinary heartbeat faster. Get to know the city from its "delicious" side by spoiling yourself with Bremen's delicacies.
Bremen for Culture Fans
Culturally, Bremen has a lot to offer. We have the right tips for culture lovers: anything from city culture, open studios, or the top events of the year.
Top Events in Bremen
Bremen for Culture Enthusiasts
Bremen for Families
Let's go to Bremen - just like the town musicians once intended. Take your kids along and experience colourful, diverse, and unforgettable family days.
Family Holidays in Bremen
Bremen for Adventure Seekers
In case you prefer to be active and are looking for an adventure, we also have various recommendations for you. Hiking, sailing, flying, or diving – it is all possible in Bremen and the surrounding area.
You might also be interested in...
Bremen at Second Glance
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
All Sights in Bremen at a Glance
Home
Tourism
Sights
Sights in Bremen
Get ready for Sightseeing in Bremen!
1,200 years of tradition and cosmopolitanism shape Bremen, the Hanseatic city on the Weser. The old trading city with its historic centre around the market square exudes the flair of a young metropolis. And yet anyone who embarks on a journey through time with open eyes will witness its long and exciting history. Look forward to Bremen's sights. There is much to discover!
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
The magnificent Weser Renaissance
town hall and the venerable figure of Roland
on the historic
Market Square
remain unmistakable. They have embodied the citizens' will for independence since 1404. The town hall and Roland are protected by UNESCO as a unique world heritage site, but the
Schnoor Quarter
- Bremen's oldest quarter - the unusual architecture of the tradition-steeped
Böttcherstraße
or
St. Peter’s Cathedral
are also unparalleled. You don't even need a city map for a tour of the most important sights. 2,000 brass and steel nails lead from Liebfrauenkirchhof to the Market Square and Schnoor Quarter to Böttcherstraße. And don't forget to pick up a portion of luck at the
Bremen Town Musicians
!
City Hall and Roland
Together with Roland, the town hall is part of Bremen's Unesco World Heritage.
Market Sqaure
Created in 1404, it is one of the oldest public squares in the city.
Böttcherstraße
A street as a work of art in the city centre
Schnoor Quarter
Narrow Alleys and small Houses
Bremen Town Musicians and Ratskeller
The starting point of the route is the Hanseatic city's secret landmark. With its back to the town hall and its face to the Liebfrauenkirchhof, the bronze statue of the
Bremen Town Musicians
designed by Gerhard Marcks presents itself. The fairy tale of the legendary figures is known all over the world and has been as closely associated with Bremen as the town hall and Roland since the Brothers Grimm. Anyone who touches the donkey's legs is granted a wish.
Only a few steps away from the Town Musicians, also on the west side of the Town Hall, is the entrance to Germany's oldest wine cellar. In Bremen's
Ratskeller
, the cellar master has been pouring fine wines since 1409. With 650 different varieties, it houses the largest collection of German wine.
Bremen Town Musicians
Bremen Ratskeller
Plenty of other Sights to Discover...
If you continue to follow the brass and steel nails, your path will lead you from one sight to the next. Whether it's the
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
, the
Paula Modersohn Becker Museum
, the Schütting or the
pigs in Sögestraße
- there's plenty to discover in Bremen's city centre. But there are also numerous highlights beyond the city centre that you should visit. In the
Focke Museum
you can follow in the footsteps of Bremen's history, the
Universum® Bremen
invites you to marvel and participate, while in the
Überseestadt
you can see how past and present blend together between old harbour buildings.
Book now
Get to know Bremen
Get to know Bremen
Package Deal for you
You might also be interested in...
Christmas Markets in Bremen
Maritime Bremen
Best Views in Bremen
Bremen for Lovers - Tips for Spending Time Together
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Lovers
Bremen for Lovers
All the romance of the Hanseatic city
From a romantic weekend to a relaxed holiday or a chance to enjoy special experiences with your sweetheart – find inspiration and plan memorable moments with your loved one. Whether a Valentine’s Day trip, a special Christmas surprise, an anniversary celebration or simply a little treat: leave everyday life behind and enjoy some quality time together. Feel your heart skip a beat and celebrate the magic of love in the enchanting setting of the Hanseatic city.
Inspiration for Special Dates
Although time together is surely the greatest gift of all, you might be looking for ideas to make your date even more memorable with a special surprise. We have lots of inspiration for you.
Book now
1, 2 or 3 Nights for Two in Bremen
1, 2 or 3 Nights for Two in Bremen
You can find a selection of package deals here for your romantic trip by the Weser
Explore the City Together
The
Town Musicians
,
UNESCO World Heritage
, the twisting lanes of the
Schnoor district
and
Böttcherstraße
– Bremen has so many sights for you to discover with that special someone. Explore the city’s many attractions together and enjoy romantic moments in the historic setting of the city by the Weser. Whether you take part in a guided tour or prefer to discover the city on your own, this is an opportunity to share experiences and make lasting memories.
Romantic 24 Hours in Bremen
Inspiration for a short break with someone special
Best Views in Bremen
Romantic Autumn Atmosphere
Enjoy the golden season by the Weser
Your Relaxed Day
You might also be interested in...
The Most Beautiful Green Oases in Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Culture and Events
Liquid Pleasures
Bremen has something for every connoisseur.
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen Ratskeller - A Look into the Vaults of the Town Hall
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen Ratskeller
Bremen Ratskeller
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities from Knipp to Labskaus and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you in the Ratskeller Bremen. Immerse yourself in the exciting vaults beneath Bremen's town hall.
The "delicious foundation of the town hall" - Bremen's Ratskeller is not nicknamed this for nothing. The vaults below the Liebfrauenkirchhof and the Domshof not only house one of Bremen's most traditional restaurants, but also the world's largest selection of exclusively German wines. As part of Bremen's town hall, the Ratskeller is a
UNESCO World Heritage Site
and impresses with its more than 600 years of history.
A Piece of City History
There was already a municipal wine cellar in medieval Bremen. When Bremen's town hall was built in 1405, the Ratskeller was relocated to its cellars. Until 1815, only the Bremen City Council had the privilege of serving white wine in the city. Even today, only German wines are served in Bremen's Ratskeller.
Every Hall is Different
Through the entrance on the side of the town hall, you first enter the "
Historic Hall
" or "
Great Columned Hall
", with its huge 18th century "magnificent barrels" decorated with wood carvings. This vault is the oldest part of the Ratskeller, which houses parts of the building's catering facilities. It was gradually extended over the years. A guided tour through the vaults is highly recommended.
Priölken:
Six small wooden sheds for four to five people, the so-called "Priölken" (Low German for "arbour"), were set up on the south side of the hall around 1600.
Apostelkeller:
Built around 1550, the Apostelkeller houses twelve oak barrels of Rhine wines from the 18th century.
Rose cellar:
The oldest and most valuable wines in the cellar were stored here. The Rosekeller also served as a secret meeting room for the councillors. The oldest wine in the cellar, the famous Rüdesheim wine from 1653, which is also the oldest cask wine in Germany, is stored at the front of the cellar.
Senate Room:
Originally reserved for the reception of guests of the Senate, the Senate Room is now rented out by the Ratskeller.
Bacchuskeller:
The Bacchuskeller was built in 1620 as a wine storehouse. Today it is also a guest room. At the front is a barrel with a figure of the wine god Bacchus from the Baroque period.
Hauffsaal:
The Hauffsaal is also a former wine storehouse and now serves as a restaurant. It was named after the poet Wilhelm Hauff, who visited the Ratskeller in 1826.
A wine archive of inestimable value
In the past, only wines from the Rhine and Moselle were stored in the Ratskeller - today the range includes German wines from all 13 wine-growing regions. The Ratskellermeister has always watched over the stocks. A large proportion of the valuable wines - with the exception of the old Rose and Apostel wines - were lost in the post-war turmoil. Today, outstanding bottled wines from all vintages are once again archived in the Ratskeller's treasure chamber. All in all, a collection of inestimable value.
A Prominent Restaurant
Over the centuries, many well-known personalities have visited Bremen's Ratskeller. The most frequent guest was undoubtedly Kaiser Wilhelm II, who visited the cellar once a year from 1890 to 1914 for the "Kaiserfrühstück". But the Ratskeller was also very popular with artists. The poet Wilhelm Hauff even wrote a novella about his visit ("Phantasien im Bremer Ratskeller"). Other writers such as Heinrich Heine, Hoffmann von Fallersleben and Theodor Fontane as well as composers such as Johannes Brahms, Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss are also on the list of prominent guests.
Typical Bremen
In 2022, the Bremen Ratskeller won the Tourism Award in the Typical Bremen category, as it is one of Bremen's classic sights and has become an integral part of the city's tourist portfolio.
Impressions from the Bremen Ratskeller
Guided Tours through the Ratskeller
Bremen's Ratskeller is absolutely worth a visit! On a guided tour, you can find out what goes on behind the otherwise closed doors of this World Heritage Site. You can enjoy a drop or two from the extensive selection. All dates can be found at
www.ratskeller.de
.
The following tours are available for private groups:
Classic cellar tour with one wine
Cellar tour Selection with three wines
Premium cellar tour with five wines and chocolate
You can also find all information about making an appointment at
www.ratskeller.de
.
Book now
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Nearby
St. Peter’s Cathedral
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Market Square
You might also be interested in...
Wine Merchants
Attention Wine Lovers!
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
botanika - Bremen’s World of Nature Discovery
botanika - Bremen’s World of Nature Discovery
Experience nature, discover Far Eastern cultures and the colourful splendour of flowers - you can do all this at botanika, Bremen's great world of discovery.
Pure nature in the centre of the city - this is possible in Bremen's great world of discovery. Embedded in the surroundings of the famous Rhododendron Park, you can go on a vivid journey through the world of plants and discover fascinating topics such as biodiversity or plant ecology.
Opening Times
Monday to Friday
from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Saturday, Sunday and on public holidays
from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
botanika - Bremen’s World of Nature Discovery
A Unique Atmosphere
Asian landscapes, a japanese garden and a butterfly house allow you to not only experience exotic nature and culture in a new way, but also our own native ecosystem as well. In the greenhouse, follow the path from the Japanese Garden, through the lush greenery of Borneo and New Guinea into the Himalayas. Original exhibits such as a prayer wheel, a Chinese tea pavilion and authentic Buddha statues, accompany you along the way. There are also numerous exotic varieties of Rhododendrons for you to enjoy. With its many interactive activities, the botanika is a destination for the entire family. The unique atmosphere of the botanika also makes it a terrific space for events and parties, like a child’s birthday or even a wedding.
Book now
Bremen's world of nature discovery
Bremen's world of nature discovery
Book your tickets online
The Discovery Centre
Wander through a sweet-smelling meadow, observe a bee colony at work, or find out what it feels like to be the fly inside a carnivorous plant. In the Discovery Centre of the botanika you’ll experience the plant and animal world in a new, unusual way. The numerous interactive stations and exhibits bring you nearer to the wonders of nature, step by step.
Symbol of Peace: A Buddha for Europe
The Peace Buddha for Europe, decorated with gold leaf, shines in the botanika's Japanese Garden. On the initiative of the Dalai Lama, a Peace Buddha is to be erected on every continent. The one for Asia was consecrated by the Dalai Lama in Jayanti Park in New Delhi in 1993. The Peace Buddha for Europe has been on display in the botanika since August 2017. The 2.4 metre high statue is intended to serve as a symbol of peace for all and is not a place of worship.
You might also be interested in...
Universum Bremen
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Übersee Museum
Food and Drink - Culinary Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Kale with pinkel, labskaus and knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities do sound a bit like something you'd get used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea and connections to rural life forms the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. But the city's long coffee and brewing traditions also leave their mark, as do the regional delicacies cabbage, asparagus and strawberries. It's also impossible to imagine the culinary map of Bremen without the rollo, which was invented in Bremen, and the many sweets made here. Let Bremen melt in your mouth!
But Bremen is not only at the forefront when it comes to production, but also and especially when it comes to savouring. A large number of restaurants, pubs, cafés and manufactories invite you to savour their specialities. Whether it's cabbage and spelt, Labskaus or Knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities take a little getting used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea, the tradition of trade and links to rural life form the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. Whether it's a beer seminar or coffee tasting, a city tour with appetisers or making your own sweets - in Bremen there are plenty of opportunities to actively experience the culinary side of the city.
Schlachte Embankment
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
The delicious foundation of Bremen's town hall
Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. Not only can typical Bremen dishes be savoured here, but this is also where the cellar master poured the first fine wines back in 1409. Today, guests can choose between 650 different, illustrious varieties on over 70 pages of the wine list - praised by connoisseurs as a veritable wine encyclopaedia.
Ratskeller Bremen
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you under the town hall.
Brewing tradition
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 11th century. According to "Markenmonitor Bier", the Beck & Co brewery is the most popular and most popular beer brand in Germany. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing is the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen. A visit to the brewery's former advertising icon, the three-master "Alexander von Humboldt", is a great addition to the brewery tour. Green sails and Joe Cocker's striking "Sail Away" - who doesn't recognise this traditional barque with its eye-catching appearance? She has now found her home harbour at Bremen's Martinianleger. But Beck's is by no means the only beer brewed in Bremen. Craft beers are currently on everyone's lips in the truest sense of the word.
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Alexander von Humboldt
Dining on the world-famous three-master.
Coffee Culture
Who would have thought it: every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen, and almost every second imported bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. So it's no wonder that coffee culture is cultivated in many places in the Weser city and the city's long coffee history is continued on a daily basis. We Bremen residents even have our own word for cultivated coffee enjoyment: kaffeesieren. And in traditional roasting houses such as Lloyd Caffee and Kaffeerösterei August Münchhausen, you can take a look behind the scenes on informative guided tours, gain an insight into the art of roasting and taste full-bodied coffees. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Coffee Culture
Here you can get fresh beans, become a barista or enjoy freshly brewed delicacies.
Coffee Roasteries
Take a look behind the scenes
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Public Transport Bremen: Bus and Tram
Home
Living
Mobility and Traffic
Public Transport Bremen: Bus and Tram
Public Transport Bremen: Bus and Tram
With public transport through Bremen
In Bremen, the Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG) ensures an adequate network of bus and tram lines, some of which also operate as night lines. Within the framework of the VBN, the timetables are adapted in the best possible way regionally and supra-regionally.
Every day, the
Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG)
provides mobility in Bremen with around 380 vehicles - modern trams and buses. Well over 250,000 people use the service every day. More than 2,000 employees are at work day and night: behind the wheel, at the crank, in the workshops, in service and in administration.
Bremer Straßenbahn AG
Your contact for all questions about buses and trams in Bremen.
FahrPlaner
Find the connection that suits!
Network Map
Park and Ride
FahrPlaner App
Get the VBN App
Bike and Ride
Tickets and Prices
In cooperation with the VBN, Bremer Straßenbahn AG offers various tickets for individual needs. From single tickets for short and long distances to bicycle transport and monthly tickets as well as solutions for frequent travellers such as BOB and MIA, numerous tickets are offered.
Freunde der Bremer Straßenbahn
Rides with historic trains and operator of the tramway museum "Depot".
BSAG Custumer Centers
Some things have to be done on site. If, for example, you need to hand in an MIA or semester ticket, you can do this at the BSAG customer centres.
INNSiDE by Meliá Bremen
Rhododendron-Park Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Parks and Recreation
Rhododendron-Park Bremen
Rhododendron-Park Bremen
A Rainbow of Blossoms
All year-round, visitors to the Rhododendron Park can enjoy unusual plants outside in the park as well as inside the greenhouse.
A Sea of Blossoms in May
The Rhododendronpark in Bremen is at its most beautiful in the merry month of May. A little tip: In some years, you can look forward to the main blossom a few weeks earlier. You can follow the progress of the blossoms on the
Rhododendronpark's Instagram channel
. There is space for over 10,000 rhododendron and azalea bushes on around 46 hectares. This makes the Rhododendron Park not only one of the most beautiful, but also one of the largest of its kind. For six weeks, magnificent colours ranging from yellow to violet to red shine between mighty beech and oak trees. Since 1937, the splendour of the blossoms can be admired daily in
Horn
.
Botanical Garden
The Botanical Garden is the jewel in the middle of the Rhododendron Park. On 3.2 hectares there is a scientifically oriented collection with over 6500 different plants from the homeland and from all over the world. The plants are arranged according to themes and provided with explanatory signs: A green encyclopaedia for strolling, discovering and learning.
Honey from the Rhododendronpark
Right next to the
botanika
, you have the opportunity to buy Bremen honey from the end of March to the end of October! The bee colonies are housed at various locations in Bremen and in the Rhododendron Park. You can buy the sweet nectar every Sunday from 11 a.m. at the sales van and otherwise also in the botanika shop.
Rhododendronpark
The "botanika
The
botanika – Bremen's world of nature discovery
is a nature experience centre that opened in 2003 in the heart of the Rhododendron Park. Consisting of a "discovery centre" and themed show greenhouses, the "botanika" invites young and old to learn about the biological diversity of our earth through interactive exhibits and vivid multimedia presentations. On an exciting expedition, visitors discover distant realms such as the fascinating mountains of the Himalayas or the rainforests of Borneo on the trail of the rhododendron. Authentically recreated landscapes promise a unique, exotic experience of nature.
You might also be interested in...
botanika - Bremen's World of Nature Discovery
Flowering Season in Rhododendronpark
BremenCARD - All you need to know about the ticket
Home
Tourism
Booking
BremenCARD
BremenCARD - All you need to know
Save money and explore Bremen in style!
Whether you’re planning a short trip with the family, a visit with friends or a romantic break, the BremenCARD offers value for money! It entitles the holder to attractive discounts in many of Bremen’s museums, theatres and other cultural venues. Use the card on local public transport and enjoy tasty discounts in selected Bremen restaurants.
Notes:
Discounts generally apply only to full-price admission tickets and are not valid for special exhibitions in museums. The BremenCARD is issued to a named individual and is not transferable. It is therefore valid only when accompanied by official identification. Participants’ names must be provided when ordering. The card is issued for specific dates and does not need to be validated before use. After payment, no cancellation or modifications are possible.
Customer Advisory and Sales
Advice by telephone and online
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Accommodation
Second Hand Shops in Bremen
Second Hand Shops in Bremen
Second Hand, Retro and Vintage: There is something for everyone here!
The large shopping offer in Bremen includes not only the usual retailers, individual boutiques and shops, but also numerous second-hand shops. In these shops you can buy second-hand but still impeccable clothes and beautiful things at reasonable prices. The selection ranges from no-name items to extravagant designer pieces. We have put together a few addresses in Bremen for you.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Modemarkt Bremen
Feldstraße 10, 28203 Bremen
Anziehungspunkt Vintage
Ostertorsteinweg 100, 28203 Bremen
Second Hand Frauensachen
Buntentorsteinweg 85, 28201 Bremen
Secondhandladen Proshop
Hemelinger Bahnhofstraße, 28309 Bremen
Defibrillator Secondhand
Westerstraße 2, 28199 Bremen
Hello Good Buy
Obernstraße 22-24, 28195 Bremen
HENNI
Sielwall 61, 28203 Bremen
Wanted Vintage
Kreyenstraße 1, 28195 Bremen
Anziehungspunkt Vintage
Ostertorsteinweg 100, 28203 Bremen
Mathilde 37
Mathildenstraße 37, 28203 Bremen
First Class Klamotte
Körnerwall 1, 28203 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen.
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Brewery Culture in Bremen
Brewery Culture in Bremen
Find out what you can experience on the Weser around the topics of beer and the art of brewing and what the Bremen beer scene has to offer you.
Bremen looks back on a long brewing tradition. Brewing has been going on in the city on the Weser since the 12th century. While world-famous brands have their origins in Bremen and are on everyone's lips, a lively craft beer scene with handcrafted delights also delights the palates. You can experience this diverse brewing art live, learn numerous tricks for home brewing experiments at workshops, seminars and tastings and learn interesting facts about the tasty drink made from hops and malt.
Art of Brewing Made by Beck's
Founded in Bremen in 1873, today's
Beck & Co. brewery
is world-famous. Exported to around 120 countries, the brewery from the Weser is best known for its popular Pilsner from the green bottle. With the pioneering spirit of their founding fathers, the company's brewmasters are also constantly creating new beers, mixed beer drinks and non-alcoholic variants. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing, the brewery and the Beck's and Haake-Beck brands, presented in a varied way, are the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen.
Must-See for Beck's Fans: The Alexander von Humboldt
The world-famous three-master from the legendary Beck's advertisements is anchored at the Schlachte.
Real Craft Brewing at the Freie Brau Union Bremen - Free Brewing Union Bremen
After almost 50 years without brewing any beer, the history of the
Freie Brau Union
has been written since 2015: In the
Walle district
, tradition meets the present. In the brewery's historic brick building, Bremen craft beers are brewed with great passion in the modern brewhouse. Guided tours, beer seminars and brew days give you insights and know-how about the art of brewing.
Original Brewing Tradition at Bremer Braumanufaktur
What started as a start-up in 2014 has become an integral part of the heart of Bremen: the
Bremer Braumanufaktur
brewery on the former Kellogg site. On the rapidly developing Überseeinsel, not only are varied varieties of the Hopfenfänger brand brewed, a beer garden and a brewpub also await you here. The associated vegetable yard, where some of the processed hops are grown, is also only a stone's throw away. Together with the Bremer Braumanufaktur, it won the 2022 Tourism Award in the sustainability category.
In addition, exciting brewery tours, tastings and beer seminars await you on site. And all this right on the Weser - it doesn't get any better than this!
Schüttinger: Bremen's Oldest Pub Brewery
The
Schüttinger pub brewery
stands for drinkable beer, rustic food and conviviality at long wooden tables. The Bremen tradition of the house brewery was revived in 1990. Exactly two types of beer are served here, namely light and dark. The two drinkable Schüttinger beers are particularly good to try at the so-called brewers' feast, which combines food and drink with an exuberant atmosphere.
Bremen's Craft Beer Scene
Craft beer is literally on everyone's lips and has also long since arrived in Bremen. Old breweries have been revived or new ones opened in various places in the city, pubs serve specialities and entire shops focus on the variety of exquisite beers. Here you can find out where craft beer is brewed in Bremen and where you can buy and, above all, taste special beers.
You might also be interested in...
Culinary Bremen
Discover the Variety of Drinks on offer in Bremen
Liquid Pleasures
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Discover Bremen's Traditional Hearty Fare in Restaurants and on Guided Tours
Accommodation in Bremen - Book your Overnight Stay
Home
Tourism
Booking
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Discover hotels and other accommodation options
Sleep well in Bremen! There are many possibilities to stay overnight in Bremen and the surrounding area - there is something for every taste and budget. In the city of short distances, many of the houses are located in the middle of the city. This leaves more time for exciting experiences. By the way, many hotels offer free cancellation until 6 pm on the day of arrival.
Hotels in Bremen
Book your accommodation directly online with Bremen Tourismus
Package Deals
Book your perfect city break with many inclusive services
Unusual Accommodation
Are you looking for a truly unique experience? We've picked out some very unique accommodation for you.
Hotels, holiday apartments and and more at a glance
In our accommodation search you will find a lot of accommodations: From luxury hotels to budget hostels, from rooms in the city to holiday apartments in the country. Apartments, guesthouses, family rooms - everyone can find their dream accommodation here.
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
Guided Tours
Top Events
Discover Bremen
Discover Bremen
Accommodation
Culture and Events
This is Bremen
Accessibility
Seasonal Tips
Best of Bremen
Many stories about Bremens uniqueness.
Bremen Tales
Immerse yourself in Bremen's history and let symbolic figures creatively guide you through their respective eras. Many myths and legends surround the Hanseatic city and numerous Bremen traditions are still upheld today.
Bremen Tourism: Visit the Hanseatic City
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
@visit.bremen on Instagram
Find out what Bremen locals, as well as visitors, are discovering throughout the Hanseatic city. Post your own photos on Instagram with the hashtag #enjoybremen!
Culinary Bremen
Shopping
Bremen Specialties
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Sustainable Activities in Bremen
Sustainable Activities in Bremen
Whether it's a guided tour by bike, a stroll through various second-hand shops or a visit to one of the numerous museums and knowledge worlds - a lot of sustainable experiences await you in Bremen!
Bremen has any number of sustainable experiences to offer, whether it's a guided voyage of discovery by bike, a rummage through various second-hand shops or a visit to one of the many museums and science centres in the city!
Outdoor Activities
Going on a discovery tour by bike saves CO2 and helps you keep fit! The benefits are the same, whether you take a
guided bicycle tour
or explore Bremen
on two wheels
by yourself. If you'd rather take things at a slower pace, we have suggestions for walking tours and
small hikes
. You can also discover Bremen's delights as a green space from the water. Rent one of the beautiful wooden boats from the
rowing boat rental
by the Emmasee (Lake Emma) and explore the Bürgerpark from the water.
Boats, Canoes, Paddleboards and more
Rental services in Bremen
Book now
Bicycle rental
Bicycle rental
Conscious Strolling and Shopping
When shopping, you can still keep a number of issues in mind to ensure your purchases are sustainable. For example, Bremen has a number of
second-hand boutiques and shops
that sell fairtrade products. There's even the entire "Fair mile" in the Viertel district. And you'll surely unearth that really special something at one of Bremen's flea markets. If you're looking for really typical regional souvenirs, you'll find them at
Made in Bremen
. Handicrafts, artworks, gourmet treats, books and poems from in and around Bremen can all be found in these historic surroundings in the heart of the city centre. The
Martinshof City Shop
is also right in the middle of the city. Its product range includes hand-made items from the Martinshof, one of the oldest and largest workshops for people with disabilities in Germany. Here you'll find children's toys, Bremen Senat branded products and ceramic articles.
Shopping in Bremen
Guided Tours
Explore the city in a relaxed and environmentally friendly way – aboard the Town Musicians Express! The little red and white ‘"road train", powered by an electric motor, takes you to Bremen's
beautiful city centre
. However the tours are not yet available in other languages than German.
If you'd rather explore Bremen on two wheels, you can sign up to join a group for a
guided bicycle tour
. Is there anything better than a boat tour through the countryside? Go on an excursion, or charter a
peat barge
from Findorff to discover more about the history of this particular type of vessel and experience the wonders of nature as the boat glides through the picturesque regional waterways. Excursions are run by a not-for-profit foundation which supports the inclusion of people with disabilities.
Exhibitions about Nature and the Environment
If you want to find out more about various aspects of sustainability such as climate protection and biodiversity, or if you want to immerse yourself in world cultures, the Hanseatic city of Bremen is the right place for you. Environmental protection and biodiversity are two of the topics showcased in a very approachable way at Bremen's
botanika
botanic garden. Come and investigate Bremen's green land of adventure and make your own discoveries. Yet another highlight: you can wander through Asiatic landscapes without having to buy a plane ticket or create an enormous CO2 footprint.
In
Universum Bremen
, you go on an extraordinary journey of discovery into the world of science. Experience and understand scientific phenomena up close and with all your senses through the 300 exhibits, in three subject areas (Technology, Humans and Nature). As an associate centre of the BildungKlima-plus-56 German government project, Universum has committed to reducing its own CO2 footprint and also to optimising and expanding its climate protection education program. The permanent exhibition has video interviews with experts that explore the topic of sustainability and also an enormous three-dimensional data globe that visitors can use to create their own overview of climatic events.
The exhibition spaces of the
Übersee-Museum
(Overseas Museum) are also home to exhibits from different cultures and natural environments, all with their own fascinating stories to tell. For example, visitors can find out more about how food supply chains are interconnected, about the CO2 footprint generated by growing and transporting them and the consequences of climate change for humanity and the environment.
Off into the Green
You can be right in the heart of the city, yet relax in natural environs, stroll past hundreds of rhododendrons or cycle along the roughly 15 km long stretch of dikes through Bremen’s greenest district – with its many beautiful parks, idyllic gardens, numerous nature reserves, and conservation areas, Bremen is one of the greenest cities in Germany. Come and discover some of
the most beautiful parks and green spaces
and immerse yourself in the diversity of nature.
Cultural and Tourist Sites with Social Engagement
At
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
(History House), the performers will take you back on a journey back in time. Wearing historical costumes, they relay events from three centuries of Bremen history with individual stories that bring Bremen's historic past back to life.
In the
Vegesacker Geschichtenhaus
(History House), you'll find out more about the history of the northern part of the city and its dockyards and hear lively stories from the harbour-side bars. The project: Both the History houses (in Vegesack and Bremen itself) are social integration projects for the long-term unemployed. The aim is to give the performers the skills to encourage them to return to work and provide professional support to help them into professional careers.
The
Bunker Valentin Memorial
in Bremen's Farge district was built as a factory for submarines (U-boats) in World War 2. It is the location for innovative educational approaches to how history is taught and how a sense of historical awareness can be created. A range of different formats and themed tours of the site provide information about the National Socialist era in which slave labour was used to build the Bunker Valentin factory. An information trail with 25 stations tells the history of the site. You can borrow a multimedia guide when you tour this site. It is also available as an audio guide for people with an visual impairment. The entire site is fully accessible. Guided tours must be booked in advance.
You might also be interested in...
Outdoors and Free
Plan your Sustainable Visit to Bremen
Offers for your Group Trip to Bremen
Home
Tourism
Booking
Group Offers
Offers for your Group Trip to Bremen
The Hanseatic city of Bremen is simply ideal for large and small groups. Here you will find the right offers!
The best travel memories are the ones you can share with people - visit Bremen together as a group! Eating, drinking and celebrating in an exuberant and cheerful way, or rather sitting together in a cozy round? Discover Bremen's historical, maritime or cultural sides? No problem, because Bremen offers you everything. We are also happy to create an individual group offer.
Packages, experiences and accommodation
Whether on the Weser, in the old town or in the surrounding area - find the right offer for your group trip.
We offer you:
qualified group advice
free, individual and personal advice from A-Z
exclusive offers and group discounts
Customer Advisory and Sales
By phone and online: We will be happy to advise you on all aspects of your stay in Bremen.
Guided tours, trips and sightseeing
Book your individual group experience
Gastronomy and group experiences
There is something for everyone here!
Accommodations for groups
Take advantage of our low group rates in many hotels
Selected group offers
Whether it's a guided tour, a city rally or a travel package - here you'll find a selection of our bestsellers that are especially suitable for groups. By the way: Every package can also be booked for groups. Let us inspire you - we'll be happy to advise you!
Book now
Package for groups
Package for groups
With hotel, program & food
Book now
Legendary Bremen
Legendary Bremen
Bremen stories, legends and anecdotes
Lively acting tours for groups
Guide "to go"
Individual guided tour
Guided tours for school classes
Book now
Discover Bremen by bike
Discover Bremen by bike
Guided bike tour for groups
Brochures and catalogues
Do you like to browse through brochures? Choose the brochures, maps and information you want and we'll send them to your home free of charge.
24 Hours in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
24 Hours in Bremen
24 Hours in Bremen
Tips for a Day in the City by the Weser
Bremen is as diverse, colorful and interesting as the people who live here. There is so much to discover in the diverse city on the Weser, so many stories to learn and so many adventures to experience that 24 hours would never be enough. But you are only here for one day? Then take your stay with the typical Hanseatic serenity: Let yourself drift and be inspired by our tips for 24 hours in Bremen.
Breakfast in the Viertel (10 am)
Start the day well fortified: In the so-called
Viertel
(Quarter) you will find numerous cafés and restaurants that prepare a delicious breakfast for you. From an extended brunch to a fine bean-to-go coffee, you'll find what you're looking for here. The perfect middle ground for a day that should not only consist of breakfast is the Coffee Corner at Sielwall. With a direct view of the hustle and bustle of the neighborhood, you can enjoy various coffee specialties, bagels (also vegan) and freshly squeezed juices.
Strolling in small Stores (11 am)
If you are already in
the Viertel
(Quarter), then you should take the opportunity to browse and store in the stores located here. Numerous small boutiques, specialty stores and grocery stores away from the big chains await you with an individual offer. A visit to
Heimathaven
is particularly worthwhile. Not only the wide range of different delicacies is impressive, but also the interior of the store, which has been offering delicacies for sale since 1874. You also have the chance to purchase various
Bremen Specialites
here.
Art on the 'Cultural Mile' (12.30 pm)
Now it's time for a little bit of culture. If you stroll from Sielwall along Ostertorsteinweg in the direction of the city center, you will pass directly by the "culture mile". In addition to the
Theater Bremen
, you will find the
Kunsthalle
, the
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
and the
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
, three institutions that offer access to different currents of art in their respective exhibitions. The Gerhard-Marcks-Haus is dedicated to contemporary sculpture, while the Wilhelm Wagenfeld-Haus focuses on the history of everyday culture in changing special exhibitions. The nationally important Kunsthalle Bremen presents you with works from 600 years of art history and changing special shows a wide variety of paintings and sculptures. The quarter itself is full of street art worth seeing.
Sightseeing (2.30 pm)
Not far from the Cultural Mile, a little further towards the city centre, clearly visible signposts on your left point to the
Schnoor Quarter
. From here you can start a short sightseeing tour that covers some of the
Must-See Sights
.
The Schnoor is Bremen's oldest quarter. In this medieval quarter, colourful little houses are strung together like pearls on a string (Schnoor). The houses are home to numerous small shops and cafés - the perfect opportunity to stop for a bite to eat.
From the Schnoor, you pass the stately
St. Peters Cathedral
to Bremen's "parlour", the
Market Square
. Here you'll find numerous buildings worth seeing, but above all the city's impressive town hall and Bremen's Roland statue, which together are
UNESCO World Heritage Sites
.
At the town hall you will also find the bronze monument to the
Bremen Town Musicians
, a reminder of the Brothers Grimm fairytale of the same name.
Opposite the town hall, at the other end of the market square, is the entrance to
Böttcherstraße
. Bremen's secret main street is a unique work of art with its expressionist brick architecture, artistically designed by Bernhard Hoetger. Don't miss the "Haus des Glockenspiels" (House of the Chimes), where 30 Meissen porcelain bells ring out every hour on the hour from January to March at 12 noon, 3 pm and 6 pm and from April to December between 12 noon and 6 pm.
By the way: We have a
free audio guide
for you, with which you can discover Bremen's sights on your own, but still learn a lot of interesting facts from the professionals.
Book now
Guided Tour of the Town Hall
Guided Tour of the Town Hall
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
City Center Stroll (4.30 pm)
Once you have seen all these sights, you are already in the middle of the
city centre
. Here you will find many well-known shops, but also smaller boutiques to shop to your heart's content. At various corners you will also find places to take a coffee break - in Bremen this is called "kaffeesieren".
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen.
Cafés in Bremen
Come and enjoy the many different cafés in Bremen
Dining in Bremen (7 pm)
If you're curious about what's
traditionally served in Bremen
, you'll find a whole range of restaurants in the city centre. Take a look at the
Bremen Ratskeller
or
Schüttinger
- these and other restaurants serve Bremen dishes such as knipp, smelts or labskaus. And if you're already at the Ratskeller, you can not only eat wonderfully here. The vaults, which are well worth seeing, contain over 600 years of wine tradition and the world's largest selection of exclusively German wines. It's worth a look!
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Book now
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Strolling along the Schlachte Embankment (9 pm)
Bremen cuisine is hearty cuisine - so you might be in the mood for a little digestive stroll. The Weser promenade near the city centre,
Schlachte Embankment
, is the perfect place for this. Let your gaze wander over the river and enjoy the maritime ambience. If the evening is still young and you are not yet tired, many bars on the Schlachte invite you to enjoy a beer, cocktail or wine - in the beer garden season even under the open sky and with a view of the Weser. Not directly on the river, but somewhat hidden in the second row, fans of good cocktails get their money's worth: In the 'Blauer Fasan bar', high-quality (and not entirely inexpensive) drinks ranging from classics to your own creations are served until late at night.
A Snack on Siellwall Crossing (midnight)
If you get hungry again at night, numerous snack bars around Sielwall Crossing will help you out. In many places you can get the Rollos that Bremen is famous for - flatbreads filled and rolled in a variety of ways, which become a special treat with different sauces.
A new Day dawns (9 am)
If you didn’t stay up until the wee small hours last night and are feeling rested and full of energy, you can make a little detour to the
Findorff
market before you set off for home. Open every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, this market sells a wide selection of fresh foods. You can pick up a freshly brewed coffee and a little breakfast snack to go at some of the stalls. And if you still have a little time to spare, it’s just a short stroll from the Findorffmarkt to the
Bürgerpark
, which together with the neighbouring municipal forest forms Bremen's largest area of parkland. This
green oasis
in the heart of the city is a perfect place for a leisurely walk, as well as other outdoor activities such as rowing or mini golf.
The most beautiful green oases in Bremen
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Coffee Corner
Holtorf Feinkost
Bremen culture / Kunsthalle
Bremen culture / Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Bremen culture / Wilhelm Wagenfeld-Haus
Bremen culture / Theater Bremen
Schnoor
Schnoor
Bremen Market square
Roland
Town Hall
Town Musicians
Böttcherstraße
Innenstadt
Ratskeller
Schüttinger
Alte Gilde
Schlachte
Blauer Fasan
Viertel / Sielwall
Findorff market
Bürgerpark
Book now
BremenCARD
BremenCARD
Book now
City Break Bremen Package
City Break Bremen Package
Book now
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
Book now
Town Musicians Express City Centre
Town Musicians Express City Centre
You might also be interested in...
48 Hours in Bremen
Bremen for Lovers
Look Behind the Scenes
All Sights in Bremen at a Glance
Home
Tourism
Sights
Sights in Bremen
Get ready for Sightseeing in Bremen!
1,200 years of tradition and cosmopolitanism shape Bremen, the Hanseatic city on the Weser. The old trading city with its historic centre around the market square exudes the flair of a young metropolis. And yet anyone who embarks on a journey through time with open eyes will witness its long and exciting history. Look forward to Bremen's sights. There is much to discover!
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
The magnificent Weser Renaissance
town hall and the venerable figure of Roland
on the historic
Market Square
remain unmistakable. They have embodied the citizens' will for independence since 1404. The town hall and Roland are protected by UNESCO as a unique world heritage site, but the
Schnoor Quarter
- Bremen's oldest quarter - the unusual architecture of the tradition-steeped
Böttcherstraße
or
St. Peter’s Cathedral
are also unparalleled. You don't even need a city map for a tour of the most important sights. 2,000 brass and steel nails lead from Liebfrauenkirchhof to the Market Square and Schnoor Quarter to Böttcherstraße. And don't forget to pick up a portion of luck at the
Bremen Town Musicians
!
City Hall and Roland
Together with Roland, the town hall is part of Bremen's Unesco World Heritage.
Market Sqaure
Created in 1404, it is one of the oldest public squares in the city.
Böttcherstraße
A street as a work of art in the city centre
Schnoor Quarter
Narrow Alleys and small Houses
Bremen Town Musicians and Ratskeller
The starting point of the route is the Hanseatic city's secret landmark. With its back to the town hall and its face to the Liebfrauenkirchhof, the bronze statue of the
Bremen Town Musicians
designed by Gerhard Marcks presents itself. The fairy tale of the legendary figures is known all over the world and has been as closely associated with Bremen as the town hall and Roland since the Brothers Grimm. Anyone who touches the donkey's legs is granted a wish.
Only a few steps away from the Town Musicians, also on the west side of the Town Hall, is the entrance to Germany's oldest wine cellar. In Bremen's
Ratskeller
, the cellar master has been pouring fine wines since 1409. With 650 different varieties, it houses the largest collection of German wine.
Bremen Town Musicians
Bremen Ratskeller
Plenty of other Sights to Discover...
If you continue to follow the brass and steel nails, your path will lead you from one sight to the next. Whether it's the
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
, the
Paula Modersohn Becker Museum
, the Schütting or the
pigs in Sögestraße
- there's plenty to discover in Bremen's city centre. But there are also numerous highlights beyond the city centre that you should visit. In the
Focke Museum
you can follow in the footsteps of Bremen's history, the
Universum® Bremen
invites you to marvel and participate, while in the
Überseestadt
you can see how past and present blend together between old harbour buildings.
Book now
Get to know Bremen
Get to know Bremen
Package Deal for you
You might also be interested in...
Christmas Markets in Bremen
Maritime Bremen
Best Views in Bremen
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Museums and Science
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Find out which museums, exhibitions and places of experience are waiting for you in Bremen and where you can find them.
Places of Experience and Knowledge
Art & Design
Bremen Regional Studies, Art and Cultural History
Remembrance and Documentation
Technology, Mobility, Profession and Craft
Here you'll find all museums and places of knowledge in Bremen
Wuseum
Franz-Böhmert-Straße 1
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
Am Wall 209
Weserburg
Universum® Science Center Bremen
Wiener Straße 1A
Tischlereimuseum Bremen
Köpkenstraße 18/20
Städtische Galerie im Buntentor
Buntentorsteinweg 112
Schulmuseum Bremen
Auf der Hohwisch 61-63
Overbeck- Museum
Alte Hafenstraße 30
Olbers-Planetarium
Werderstraße 73
Museum Schloß Schönebeck
Im Dorfe 3-5
Museen Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße 6-10
Krankenhaus Museum
Züricher Straße 40
Köksch un Qualm
Stader Landstraße 46
Haus der Wissenschaft
Sandstraße 4-5
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Am Wall 208
GAK
Teerhof 21
Dom-Museum Bremen im St.Petri-Dom
Sandstraße 10-12
Das Depot - Straßenbahnmuseum
Schloßparkstraße 45
Bremer Rundfunkmuseum
Findorffstraße 22-24
Altes Pumpwerk
Salzburger Straße 12
Focke Museum
Schwachhauser Heerstraße 240
Kunsthalle Bremen
Speicher XI, Hafenmuseum, Überseestadt
botanika
Deliusweg 40
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Wüstestätte 10
Übersee-Museum
Bahnhofsplatz 13
Denkort Bunker Valentin
Rekumer Siel
You might also be interested in...
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
Book now
Tours and Tickets
Tours and Tickets
for various museums and worlds of knowledge as well as suitable package tours
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Bremer Klaben - Bremen's Typical Winter Pastry
Home
Living
Food and Drink
Bremer Klaben - Bremen's Typical Winter Pastry
Learn how to bake the traditional pastry from Bremen.
The Klaben season has begun! Just in time, we provide some information about the internationally known pastry. For the bakers among you there is also a delicious recipe to check out.
A Traditional Pastry
The Bremer Klaben was first mentioned in 1593. The winter fruit cake is comparable to the stollen. It consists of raisins and yeast dough. But unlike stollen, it is not buttered and sprinkled with sugar after the baking process. The pastry is very popular among both locals and guests, as it is one of the most famous Bremen specialties. The Bremer Klaben is generally known for the fact that the fruit content is as high as the percentage of the dough, which is rich in fat. Moreover, the pastry gets its spicy flavor from the South Indian spice cardamom.
Since 2010, the pastries that are made in Bremen and the surrounding area are considered to be the original Klaben. The Knigge confectionery located on the famous Sögestraße bakes the Bremer Klaben all year round as it is very popular among tourists. In addition, these pastries are shipped and sold all over the world. Particularly at Christmas time, various people mail the traditional pastry as a Christmas gift. Traditionally, the first Bremer Klaben is cut at a ceremony in mid-November on the
market square
to introduce the Klaben season.
Ingredients:
1 kg flour
100 g sugar
125 g yeast
250 ml milk
500 g soft butter
1 level tsp cardamom
1 tsp salt
125 g candied lemon peel
125 g grated almonds
750 g raisins
Preparation:
Mix the milk, the yeast and 1 teaspoon of sugar in a small bowl and let it stand until it foams.
Mix the flour with the salt and stir half of the mix with yeast, butter, and sugar until the formula turns into a soft dough. Cover it up and let the dough rise in a warm place for 30 minutes.
Add the remaining flour and knead it into a smooth dough.
Wash the raisins and pat dry them. Gently fold in the candied lemon peel, almonds, and cardamom.
Put the dough on a baking tray which is covered with baking paper or use a specific Klaben baking pan. Let the dough rise for another 30 minutes.
Bake the dough for 40-60 minutes in the 180°C preheated oven, preferably covered. Make sure that the raisins do not get too dark.
Klabenanschnitt auf dem Bremer Marktplatz
You might also be interested in...
Christmas Markets in Bremen
Winter
Culinary Bremen
Gift Vouchers to Discover Bremen
Home
Tourism
Booking
Gift Voucher
Gift Vouchers to Discover Bremen
The perfect gift for any occasion – a gift voucher to discover Bremen!
What better gift than spending time together? From a culinary tour of the city to a boat trip on the Weser, a visit to the new exhibition or a complete package experience. But with so much to choose from, how can you decide? We take all the stress out of the decision for you with the gift voucher to discover Bremen. Enjoy the pleasure of giving!
Here you get the gift voucher
Choose your preferred picture, the value and book online and get your gift voucher to print@home.
Savour the anticipation
Bremen has its own special charm in every season. It’s not just Bremen’s impressive
sights
that attract visitors. With its
maritime charm
,
culinary pleasures
and annual
cultural highlight events
, Bremen is always worth a visit! So savour the anticipation and start planning your next trip to the Hanseatic city now!
Experiencing seasons
Bremen is always worth a visit.
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Customer Advisory and Sales
Advice by telephone and online
Book now
Packages
Packages
Affordable packages that include hotels, meals & attractions.
You might also be interested in...
Brochures
Lots of information for your trip to Bremen.
Bremen for lovers
All the romance of the Hanseatic city
24 Hours in Bremen
ArtPeeks – ART'N'WALK through the City
Home
Tourism
ArtPeeks – ART'N'WALK through the City
ArtPeeks – ART'N'WALK through the City
Take a walk around and discover Bremen's art in public spaces
This Largely barrier free and free of charge tour takes you away from the usual well-trodden pathways to reveal modern artworks and helps you get to know Bremen's multi-faceted city landscape. You'll find a bit of history, enjoy a breath of fresh air from the Weser, discover idyllic green spaces, see a number of boutique galleries, and of course get to know Bremen's famous museums of art.
You will find art in public spaces all over Bremen! It was the first city in Germany to create a state-wide arts programme that involved its inhabitants in selecting the artworks, creating the basis for getting up close and personal with modern art that continues today. There are now around
670 works to been seen in our public
spaces.
The ArtPeeks route is just over six kilometres long, and in the two hours or so it'll take you to complete, you'll visit some of the exciting artworks that adorn Bremen's city centre. Discover fascinating works of art on your tour of the Hanseatic city: they're sure to astound, amaze and provoke discussion!
Part 1 of the walk: From the Town Musicians to the Wallanlagen
Most people are probably familiar with the starting point of the tour, the Bremen Town Musicians! However, the route also takes visitors to works of art that are rather more hidden away, in the Wallanlagen and around the Kunsthalle (Bremen's art museum). The tour guides you through the green corridor around the city, in the direction of the River Weser.
Part 2 of the walk: From the city centre to the Teerhof (tarring yard)
The tour continues through the historic
Schnoor district
and then guides you across the
River Weser
to the Teerhof (former tarring yard). This island in the Weser isn't just an exclusive residential neighbourhood, it's also home to a multitude of artworks. The tour concludes after a visit to the historic
Böttcherstraße
by returning to Bremen's
market square
.
You'll find the route to the attractions here
You can also download the entire tour from our
Komoot account
! Komoot websites provide information for tourism and for visiting attractions.
The Bremen Town Musicians
Neptun Brunnen
Einkaufswagen
Mann und Frau
Das Ende
Artworks on Kennedy square
Monument to Paula Modersohn-Becker
The Rabbit Hole tunnel of art
Ebbe und Flut
Dialog I
Heinrich Heine
Imploded Cube
Im Fadenkreuz der Justiz
Ottjen Alldag
Fipps, der Affe
Windspiel Kinetische Plastik
Artworks at the Teerhof
Raum-Fahrt
POWER JOY HUMOR RESISTANCE
Outdoor Piece for Bremen
Die Bremer Befragung
Having Been Built On Sand With Another Base (Basis) In Fact. Auf Sand gebaut. Tatsächlich auf anderem Grund.
The artistic synthesis that is the Böttcherstraße
Fietje Balge
Der Tröpfler
Skulpturengarten Haus der Bremischen Bürgerschaft
Art museums in Bremen
Do you want to discover even more artworks, either during or after your walk? There are more museums close to the route, where you can admire even more artworks to your heart's content!
ART’N’WALK leaflet for your tour of the city's artworks
You can download the current ART’N’WALK leaflet as a PDF file
here
. And, of course, you can pick up a printed version in our
Tourist Information office in the Böttcherstraße and at the railway station
.
You might also be interested in...
Culture and Events
There's always something happening in Bremen!
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
24 Hours in Bremen
Sights in Bremen
The Hanseatic city has a lot to offer
Parks and Recreation
Sports in Bremen
Home
Living
Sports
Sports in Bremen
Sporting Goods Shops in Bremen
Equipment und expert advice for your sport
Sporting Events
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
Golf Courses in and around Bremen
Swing the golf club!
Boat Rental
Whether canoes, kayaks or boards for stand up paddling - we compiled a list of rental boats in Bremen and the surrounding area.
Swimming in Bremen
Stroll and Hike
Discover Bremen by foot!
Trips and Tours on Ships and Boats on the Weser
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Trips and Tours on Ships and Boats on the Weser
Trips and Tours on Ships and Boats on the Weser
Discover Bremen from the Water - here you will find the most beautiful Boat Trips in Bremen.
Now it's time to cast off and ahoy! You can discover all kinds of new places on these boat trips in Bremen. Here you'll find the best tips from a peat barge trip to Weser and harbour tours.
Weser and Harbour Tours in Bremen
Cruises to Bremen's Surroundings
Book now
Torfkahn Charter
Torfkahn Charter
Trips to other Districts
Event Boats
Book now
Evening barbecue cruise with the Flotte Weser
Evening barbecue cruise with the Flotte Weser
Enjoy a special dinner on the water!
Book now
Breakfast trip
Breakfast trip
Culinary Weser Tour
Sightseeing Boat Marie
Enjoy the beautiful view of Bremen's Bürgerpark on a
round trip on the Marie
. The round trip starts and ends at the Meiereisee. The journey takes you past Lake Emma to the animal enclosure, via the former Waldschlösschen back to the Meierei. You can get on or off at any of the four stops.
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Along the coast
Day trips to the North Sea coast
Fischerhude - Excursion - Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Excursions
Fischerhude
Fischerhude
The "village of farmers and artists"
The artists' village of Fischerhude is located not far from Bremen. A popular destination for extensive cycling tours, it is around 20 kilometers from Bremen and boasts vast landscapes and traditional arts and crafts.
In the tradition of art
After Otto Modersohn discovered the town for himself in 1896, it became a magnet for painters. In their tradition, numerous artists are still drawn to Fischerhude today. Works by the first generation can be seen in the local galleries, as can works by contemporary artists. For example, the Otto Modersohn Museum, Buthmanns Hof and the carefully restored Galerieholländer windmill are regularly the venue for changing exhibitions.
There are more than 10 old farms in Fischerhude, including the Irmintraut homestead. It is assumed that the inscription on the door beam refers to a renovation of the façade and reads: "May 3, 1768". The Heimathaus therefore has over 250 years of history. The local history museum is located within this historic building.
You might also be interested in...
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Planning and Booking your Trip
7THINGS - my basic hotel
Free Audio Guide: An Audio Walk through Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Free Audio Guide: An Audio Walk through Bremen
Free Audio Guide: An Audio Walk through Bremen
Can be downloaded here for free: audio files for your very own Bremen audio guide tour.
With your individual audio guide tour you can hear interesting facts about the historic and present day Bremen. Experience the Bremen historic district with its historical buildings and the most famous points of interest. You can store these MP3 audio files on your own smartphone or MP3 player, and undertake an audio tour in Bremen with these.
13 Stations along the Historic Route
13 Text/stations of the audio guide tour: introduction, history, market square, Roland, Bürgerschaft, Schütting, Böttcher street, Martini church/ landing-stage, Weser promenade, Schlachte, Schnoor, St. Petri cathedral, Town Musicians.
Follow the "historic route" in the Bremen historic district, which has been highlighted on the ground by means of marker points. In addition, grey tables with German and English texts supply information about all the important buildings in the Bremen inner city.
The audio guide tour can last approximately 1-2.5 hours. You alone decide how long you wish to sojourn with your individual audio guided tour. At every location one can hear approximately 3-5 minutes of audio information. Without any preparation and group, you can start at any time you wish and you can decide how long you wish to sojourn at a particular point, as well as when you wish to end the tour.
Foldout or Printed Version with City Map Included
You will be given a
foldout
"audio guide tour" with a
city map
as a pdf-file. You can obtain a printed version from the tourist-information in Bremen.
Download the Complete Package
You have the option to
download the complete package
with all mp3-files and store these on your smartphone or mp3 player. Playback is possible on any current smartphone with an app that is capable of playing mp3-audio.
Lending an Audio Player
You can obtain the audio guide tour with an audio player at the Tourist-Information, Böttcherstraße. 7.50 EUR lending fee per day/audio player inclusive of earphones. If you would like to make use of your own earphones, you will get a discount of 1.50 EUR. Please note that you are requested to pay a deposit for hiring the audio player: identification card, passport, driver’s licence or 50 Euros in cash. Naturally, upon return, your deposit will be refunded.
Other languages
Guía de audio en español
Aquí podéis descargar
la guía de audio
en español con todos los mp3-files.
L'audioguida in italiano
Qui potete scaricare
l'audioguida
con tutti i file mp3 in italiano.
You might also be interested in...
Guided Tours & Trips
Enjoy an entertaining and informative tour accompanied by a guide.
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Bremen for night owls - Pubs, Parties and Dancing
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Night owls
Bremen for Night Owls
There are many things to experience in Bremen by night: going on a pub tour with friends in the 'Viertel' district, enjoying an evening out in a stylish bar, or dancing the night away at a trendy club on the 'disco mile'.
Whether wild dance nights in a large disco, hearty pub evenings in a rustic ambience or cocktails with a lounge feeling - Bremen's nightlife has something to suit every taste!
Discos and Clubs in Bremen
Find out where to party and dance the night away
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Cocktailbars
Tips for a fruity, creamy or unique cocktail experience
Liquid Pleasures
Bremen has something for every connoisseur.
Iconic Pubs
The right pub for every taste!
Schlachte Embankment
The Viertel - The Place to be for Pub Crawlers
The quarter comprises the Ostertor and Steintor districts and is "THE" trendy quarter of Bremen. During the day and in the evenings, many small cafés and restaurants invite you to linger and stroll. At weekends and on so-called "Student Thursday", the streetscape is transformed into a colourful hustle and bustle of night owls and partygoers. Here you will find a multitude of bars that guarantee you a damp, happy party.
Litfass
Eisen
ChinChilla
Bermuda-Dreieck
Party Series in the Hanseatic city
Various locations throughout Bremen offer great events and party series throughout the year. Swimming pools are transformed into disco strongholds, roof terraces guarantee not only a breathtaking view but also lots of fun, or events that have been distinguished for years by well-known DJs and great music. The Hanseatic city opens its heart to music and lets you dance the night away all over town.
Menschenmenge am Tanzen.
Foundation Snacking & Midnight Treats
A proper party night needs a solid, "nutritious" foundation. Pizza, pasta, burgers or a healthy kebab are all good for this, to soak up the alcohol at the end of the night against the hangover in the morning.
Safe Journey Home
Every wild party night comes to an end at some point. To make sure you always get home safely, we have collected all the necessary telephone numbers and links here.
BSAG at Night
Taxi Companies in Bremen
WeserTaxi
Tel: 0421 - 47 60 51 9
Taxi Roland
Tel: 0421 - 1 44 33
Taxi Ruf
Tel: 0421 - 14 0 14
Legends, Traditions and Monuments in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Legends, Traditions and Monuments
Legends, Traditions and Monuments in Bremen
Bremen is legendary, especially - but not only - because of the Bremen Town Musicians. Learn more about Bremen's stories, originals and traditions.
As a city, Bremen has a history that goes back thousands of years. Accordingly, numerous legends and myths entwine around historical personalities, buildings and landmarks. And also numerous, very own traditions are maintained in the Hanseatic city.
Bremen Traditions
Bremen Legends
More Stories and Monuments
Bremen's Memory
For over 100 years, the Focke Museum has collected and preserved unique objects from Bremen’s history.
Geschichtenhaus
Take a Second Look at Bremen
There is so much history, and there are so many stories and places, that you might not know them all.
You might also be interested in...
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Sights in Bremen
The Hanseatic city has a lot to offer
Guided Tour
Book quickly and securely!
This is Bremen
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/tourism/activities/stroll-hike
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Support and Help with Problems during your Studies
Home
Education
Studying
Support and Help
Support and Help during your Studies
Get an initial overview of the various counselling services and central contacts here.
Whether your studies present you with unexpected challenges, private problems are difficult to overcome alone or other worries require support - numerous contact points are available to provide you with help and advice in various situations.
Psychological Counselling Centre (PBS)
You can get help and support with both study-related and personal issues from the
Psychological Counselling Centre
of the Studierendenwerk Bremen. Staff are available to help you unbureaucratically, free of charge and confidentially, even during the semester break.
Counselling Centres at the Universities
Bremen's universities have different counselling services for different situations. You are sure to find the right contact for your individual concerns on the overview pages of the institutions.
University of Bremen
Bremen University of Applied Sciences
University of the Arts
Bremerhaven University of Applied Sciences
Jacobs University
Centre Aaainst Discrimination and Violence (ADE)
The
ADE
provides counselling in the event of conflicts, discrimination and violence in the workplace. As a central service centre of the University of Bremen, it supports employees and students of the university, as well as all other interested parties from companies and institutions.
Bremen Central Office for the Realisation of Equal Rights for Women (ZGF)
The
ZGF
monitors the constitutional requirement of equal rights for women on behalf of the state of Bremen. Here, women and girls can find advice and support in various situations.
Social Counselling
Do you need support and information on personal, social or financial matters that are closely related to student status and student life? The
Social Counselling
service of the Studierendenwerk Bremen is the point of contact for all students, prospective students and graduates seeking advice. Free of charge and confidential.
You might also be interested in...
Information for Students with Disabilities
Studi-Life
Studying in Bremen
Bremen Tourism - Customer Advisory and Sales
Home
Tourism
Service
Customer Advisory and Sales
Bremen Tourism - Customer Advisory and Sales
Available for you by phone and online: The Team of Bremen Tourism will be happy to advise you about your stay in Bremen.
Here you will receive competent and friendly advice, up-to-date information on events and you can plan and book your city trip to Bremen. Choose from a wide range of hotels, hotel packages and travel components such as tickets and admissions.
Mon–Fri 8.30am–5pm
Sat 9am–12pm
Our service for you
Or email us at:
info@bremen-tourism.de
We provide accurate and friendly advice, up-to-date event information, itinerary planning and booking for your city break to Bremen.
Excellent telephone service – we won’t keep you waiting.
Always happy to share our knowledge with you – free of charge.
Friendly and efficient staff.
A fast, reliable service. All enquiries received by midday will be answered the same day. Customised offers for groups ready within 24 hours.
Gift vouchers
The perfect gift for any occasion – a gift voucher to discover Bremen!
Tourist information office
Info, guided tours & tickets
Accommodation
Let yourself be inspired for your overnight stay in Bremen.
Brochures
Lots of information for your trip to Bremen.
Experience Bremen Newsletter
Get the latest information and insider tips from us about the city on the Weser.
ERGO Travel Insurance
Our tip: Take a safe holiday - cancellation without risk. We recommend the products of our partner
ERGO Travel insurance
so that you can be reimbursed for any financial losses in the event of cancellation or interruption of your holiday due to illness, accident or unemployment - even within the family.
Shopping in Bremen - Discover Different Shopping Districts
Home
Living
Shopping
Shopping in Bremen
Everything you need to know about shopping in Bremen.
Is it high time to go on that wander around the shops? Do you just need a new pair of shoes, or simply want to browse through what's on offer? You can do all of that in Bremen! With its multi-faceted shopping streets, covered passageways and stylish shopping centres, colourful flea markets and authentic weekly markets, our Hanseatic city has an almost infinite variety of shopping experiences. Be inspired by our shopping tips and discover shops you never knew existed. You'll find eclectic boutiques and clusters of specialist traders alongside famous international stores.
Shopping in Different City Districts
Do you prefer shopping in creative, idiosyncratic boutiques or are you inspired by artisanal crafts? You're sure to find just the right unique, hand-crafted items and gifts in the myriad of unique shops located in Bremen's shopping districts, outside the city centre. Have a closer look at the diverse areas of the city!
Sustainable Purchasing
Shopping with sustainability in mind is becoming ever more popular in our Hanseatic city. In addition to buying the regional products on offer at the weekly markets, you can also choose to shop in any number of zero waste stores or sell your clothes to one of the pre-loved clothing shops. You might even find a hidden treasure at one of the flea markets.
Shopping for Something Special
Are you searching for accessories for your bike or dumbbells for working out at home? Bremen has all the specialist shops you could need for your hobbies and leisure pursuits. Browse through the shelves in Bremen's independent shops or be inspired by the range on offer in our major stores. We've put together a few tips you might find interesting here.
Shopping Arcades in Bremen
Lloyd Passage
The
Lloyd Passage
is home to around 30 shops and two major departments stores. Today, it's only the name that is a reminder that these businesses occupy the former site of Lloyd’s North German shipping operations. Since 2003, many VIPs have left behind their hand prints (cast in bronze) as a memento of their visit to the Passage. Having a connection to Bremen was the requirement for this memorial, which is why you'll see hand prints from celebrities such as comedian Hape Kerkeling and satirist Jan Böhmermann.
Domshof-Passage and Katharinen-Passage
These are two covered shopping arcades, home to more than 50 shops in the heart of Bremen's city centre. Leave your car nearby, in the Katharinenklosterhof, and start your shopping expedition in the
Domshof-Passage
and the
Katharinen-Passage
.
Shopping Centres
If you enjoy strolling around shopping centres, a visit to Bremen's Huchting, Walle or Osterholz districts is an absolute must. In the centres there you'll find an excellent selection of shops, chain stores and a variety of food courts, all with free parking.
More Suggestions to Round Off Your Shopping Trip
Extended Opening Hours
Late-Night Shopping and Sunday Opening
Cafés in Bremen
Come and enjoy the many different cafés in Bremen
Hotels - Book Directly Online
Discover Bremen's diverse range of hotels: from design hotels to houseboats.
City Map
Here you'll find orientation
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Museums and Science
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Find out which museums, exhibitions and places of experience are waiting for you in Bremen and where you can find them.
Places of Experience and Knowledge
Art & Design
Bremen Regional Studies, Art and Cultural History
Remembrance and Documentation
Technology, Mobility, Profession and Craft
Here you'll find all museums and places of knowledge in Bremen
Wuseum
Franz-Böhmert-Straße 1
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
Am Wall 209
Weserburg
Universum® Science Center Bremen
Wiener Straße 1A
Tischlereimuseum Bremen
Köpkenstraße 18/20
Städtische Galerie im Buntentor
Buntentorsteinweg 112
Schulmuseum Bremen
Auf der Hohwisch 61-63
Overbeck- Museum
Alte Hafenstraße 30
Olbers-Planetarium
Werderstraße 73
Museum Schloß Schönebeck
Im Dorfe 3-5
Museen Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße 6-10
Krankenhaus Museum
Züricher Straße 40
Köksch un Qualm
Stader Landstraße 46
Haus der Wissenschaft
Sandstraße 4-5
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Am Wall 208
GAK
Teerhof 21
Dom-Museum Bremen im St.Petri-Dom
Sandstraße 10-12
Das Depot - Straßenbahnmuseum
Schloßparkstraße 45
Bremer Rundfunkmuseum
Findorffstraße 22-24
Altes Pumpwerk
Salzburger Straße 12
Focke Museum
Schwachhauser Heerstraße 240
Kunsthalle Bremen
Speicher XI, Hafenmuseum, Überseestadt
botanika
Deliusweg 40
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Wüstestätte 10
Übersee-Museum
Bahnhofsplatz 13
Denkort Bunker Valentin
Rekumer Siel
You might also be interested in...
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
Book now
Tours and Tickets
Tours and Tickets
for various museums and worlds of knowledge as well as suitable package tours
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Gingerbread Manufactory Manke & Coldewey
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Gingerbread Manufactory Manke & Coldewey
Gingerbread Manufactory Manke & Coldewey
Enjoy hand-made lebkuchen gingerbread and watch as it is made in Bremen.
In the
gingerbread manufactory Manke & Coldewey
at Bremen's Fabrikenhafen in the Überseestadt, juicy elises are baked from almonds, nuts, honey, oriental spices and other delicacies. The elises are also available in various flavours with high-quality chocolate, icing or natural.
Tradition and company history
The company has existed since 1922 and is now run as a family business in the 4th generation. The tradition of handcrafting sweet specialities is continued with modern dynamism and reliability.
Originally known as an ice cream maker family, the company also started producing handmade Elisen gingerbread, freshly roasted almonds, butter stollen and gift items since 2015. This idea came about because the ice cream selling business at fairs did not work well in winter, and they decided to make delicious gingerbread. In 2022, the 100th anniversary of the ice cream shop and the 10th anniversary of the gingerbread manufactory were celebrated.
Die Lebkuchen Manufaktur Bremen
Assortment
The range includes Elisen gingerbread in various sizes, almonds, stollen and gifts. All baked goods are of the best quality, made from natural ingredients and contain little sugar. Some products do not contain any flour at all. In addition to the shop in the glass factory and sales at the Bremen Christmas market, all quality products are also offered online. The company also supplies retailers beyond the borders of northern Germany.
The gingerbread factory offers tempting treats to enjoy or give as gifts. The products are handmade at the Gläsernen Manufaktur in Bremen's
Überseestadt
district. The shop offers a wide selection of Christmas gifts in many creative flavour variations. The handmade specialities and manufactory products can be combined according to individual taste.
Guided tours through the company
Customers also have the opportunity to experience the production and get to know the family business. Guided tours are offered for groups of 8 to 20 people and must be booked in advance. Individuals can also book.
Book now
Tour for groups in German
Tour for groups in German
Experience the production of the gingerbread manufacturer Manke & Coldewey and get to know the family business!
This might also interest you
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Überseestadt
Cocktailbars in Bremen
Cocktailbars in Bremen
Tips for a fruity, creamy or unique cocktail experience: enjoy your favourite drink at a local bar or have it delivered to your desired location.
Cocktail bars are a dime a dozen, and this is no different in Bremen. Whether sweet, sour, fruity or creamy, there is a cocktail to suit every taste. What's more, they look particularly good with their sugar or fruit decorations. Here you can find out at which places in Bremen a very special cocktail experience awaits you.
Bobby Lane
The
Bobby Lane Bar
impresses with its classic ambience and relaxed atmosphere. Here, your individual cocktail dreams are fulfilled and the latest as well as tried-and-tested trends from the cocktail world are offered. Even though the focus here is on rum and gin, other liquor preferences are not neglected. Gin fans in particular get their money's worth here!
Blauer Fasan
You won't find cheap cocktails at
Blauer Fasan
; here you'll experience a cocktail evening of the upscale kind. Enjoy high-quality and creative cocktails with fresh ingredients in a stylish bar atmosphere. Here you will definitely find what you are looking for - from tried and tested cocktail classics to your own unusual creations.
Lemon Lounge
In the
Lemon Lounge
you can enjoy a great view over Bremen's
Wallanlagen
. Cocktails are served - from semi-frozen to hot. If that's still too ordinary for you, you can try the "Barrel Aged Cocktails": Cocktails that have been stored in oak barrels for up to 100 days.
Would you rather try it yourself? Then you can take part in a course at the Lemon Lounge. Professional bartenders will be on hand to give you advice and support.
„On-Top-Lounge“ DECK 20
Cocktails and luxury in Bremen are offered by
Deck 20
in
Überseestadt
. The view from this exclusive bar at a height of 65 metres is as popular as it is breathtaking. Especially at night, the bar offers a unique view over Bremen and the
Weser
.
However, access is restricted: only those who are dressed appropriately, have a club card and are older than 21 are allowed into the bar. You'll also need a bit of luck, as it can happen that all the seats are already taken.
Once you've cleared all the hurdles, you can enjoy a delicious cocktail in a bar with a unique view.
Wohnzimmer
The
Wohnzimmer
in the eastern suburbs is almost as cosy as your own living room at home. A retro shed with 70s wallpaper, the cosiest armchairs, a Super Nintendo and very tasty cocktails. Since the Wohnzimmer enjoys great popularity among the people of Bremen, it is often very crowded. If you want to get one of the cosy armchairs, you have to be there early enough.
Óniro
The
Óniro
, which is Greek for dream, awaits you in
Findorff
with cocktails, delicious burgers, pizzas and much more. Whether it's a sit-down meal or a happy hour at the bar with friends, the cocktails here are always delicious. If you like surprises, you should definitely stop by Óniro. The recipes and contents of the "Schoko Colada" and "The Big Milky Rice" are guarded and not revealed - order at your own risk!
1st Class Suicide
1st Class Suicide is located in
Neustadt
. This nice little bar has good music, a particularly extensive range of gin, a great atmosphere and, above all, delicious and unusual cocktails! Film lovers should try the Big Lebowski and for all whiskey fans the keyword is Lynchburg Lemonade!
Bermuda Dreieck
Bremen's Bermuda Triangle is not just about rock music, beer and men with long hair - you can also find good cocktails here. Especially the Bermuda and the Capri Bar are worth a visit.
The
Bermuda
has a great atmosphere, table football and of course a happy hour.
The
Capri Bar
is reminiscent of the Grotto of Capri. The feeling of sitting in a real grotto, with colourful fish in aquariums and delicious, large cocktails is definitely worth a visit. The Capri Bar also tempts with a cocktail happy hour and table football.
Papp
Papp
is an urban all-round bar. Here you can enjoy cocktails, bottled beer, coffee, organic ice cream, live music and all kinds of events. It is located directly on the Wilhelm-Kaisen-Brücke and has a particularly beautiful outdoor area, especially in summer.
Enchilada
The
Enchilada
- located at Bremen's
Schlachte
. Here you will not only find chillies and tequila, but also delicious Mexican food, a great ambience and of course: great cocktails!
The highlight is probably the Cocktail Casino! Every Tuesday, there is a dice toss for the cocktail price. The principle is simple: tell the croupier which cocktail you want, roll the dice, and the number on the dice is the price of your cocktail. True to the motto: gambling gets you drunk!
Cocktailooo
With
Cocktailooo
, it's easy to open your own cocktail bar - wherever you like it best. Bremen's cocktail delivery service offers classic, non-alcoholic and vegan cocktails at bar level. The cocktails are freshly mixed according to your order and delivered to your favourite place in Bremen with an extra portion of ice - so the cocktail is not only fresh and fruity, but can also always be enjoyed cold. The cocktails are delivered daily from 5 p.m. onwards. You can order in advance at any time, specifying your preferred delivery time.
Brill No6
Whether classic drinks or your own unusual creations - here you can enjoy cocktails from all over the world in an international setting. Bar
Brill No6
has gin and rum tastings in its repertoire and offers you the opportunity to learn how to create your own drinks in 2.5 hours in the cocktail course "Locker vom Hocker". You can also book the courses as private courses with a minimum of ten people for your party.
Perlen und Primaten
At Ostertorsteinweg 83, the operators of Blauer Fasan have opened a second paradise for cocktail fans with the bar
Perlen und Primaten
. In addition to classics, you will find special creations on the seasonally changing menu, such as spice-infused vodkas or gins. Let us surprise you!
Lemon Garden
At Wall 177 you will find the
Lemon Garden
, run by the owner of the Lemon Lounge. The drinks on offer there include a regional-seasonal menu with their own creations. In addition, you can look forward to monthly changing historical drinks and a rich selection of gin, rum, whiskey, wine and non-alcoholic cocktails and soft drinks. A small selection of pizza and tarte flambée also awaits hungry guests.
Here you'll find all tips
Lemon Lounge
In the Lemon Lounge you'll find hot, semi-frozen and oak barrel-aged cocktails.
Am Wall 164
Blauer Fasan
In the Blauer Fasan you will experience a cocktail evening of the upscale kind.
Langenstraße 81
Óniro
The Óniro awaits you with delicious burgers, great cocktails and a menu full of surprises.
Admiralstraße 7-9
1st Class Suicide
At 1st Class Suicide you' ll find good music, great cocktails and a wide range of gin..
Friedrich-Ebert-Straße 53-55
Bermuda Dreieck
In the Bermuda Dreieck, you're spoilt for choice. Cocktails at the Bermuda or the Capri Bar.
Fehrfeld 34-35
Papp
Papp has cocktails in a very special atmosphere, especially worth a visit in summer.
Friedrich-Ebert-Straße 1
Deck 20
Deck 20 offers cocktails at a height of 65 metres. However, admission is exclusive.
Konsul-Smidt-Straße 90
Enchilada
The Enchilada is waiting for you with happy hours and various promotions. Roll the dice for your cocktails!
An der Schlachte 26
Wohnzimmer
70s charm, armchairs, a Super Nintendo and delicious cocktails to go with it - all this is available in the Wohnzimmer.
Ostertorsteinweg 99
Bobby Lane
Bobby Lane offers a classic bar ambience and fulfils all cocktail wishes. Gin and rum lovers in particular get their money's worth here.
Wachmannstraße 47
Brill No6
Enjoy cocktails from around the world in an internationally renowned establishment.
Am Brill 6
Perlen und Primaten
Look forward to classics and very special cocktail creations.
Ostertorsteinweg 83
Lemon Garden
Here you can expect a regional-seasonal cocktail menu including own creations..
Am Wall 177
You might also be interested in...
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Cafés with Wi-Fi
Liquid Pleasures
Discos and Clubs in Bremen
Find out where to party and dance the night away
Bremen for Cyclists – Tips and Info for your Cycling Holiday
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Cyclists
Cycling Holidays in Bremen
Discover the historic Hanseatic city on your bike: we have all the tips and offers you need.
Bremen is a compact city where the bicycle is more than just a means of transport: it's a way of life. What's more, our Hanseatic city is linked to a number of long-distance cycle routes, making it a perfect destination for your next cycling holiday. Let us inspire you!
Is it really possible to discover an entire Federal State by bike?
In Bremen you can do just that! A bicycle is the perfect way of getting to know the "two-town state". The City Centre circuit in Bremen and the Bremerhaven circuit bring you to the main tourist attractions in the two sister-towns. A 91-kilometre section of the Weser Cycle Way links them together. If the journey from Bremen to Bremerhaven or vice versa is too far for you, you can also travel from A to B by ship or train, and take your bike with you.
Tips and Offers
We've gathered together the most important tips and some exciting offers to help you get the most out of your cycling holiday in Bremen. You'll also find information and special offers in our
Bike information package
(Stadt-Land-Rad). Order one today and start planning your cycling adventure in and around Bremen.
Book now
The Best Hotels for your Cycling Holiday
The Best Hotels for your Cycling Holiday
Stadt-Land-Rad (City, Countryside, Cycle) Information Pack
Flyers & Brochures
Book now
Discover Bremen by Bike
Discover Bremen by Bike
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Long-distance cycle routes from and through Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Bike Tours & Packages
Guided Cycle Tours
Bike Citizens App
The easy and convenient way to follow exciting bike tours.
Planning and Booking your Trip
Water Sports in Bremen
Active on and in the Water
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Ships in Bremen: The Alexander von Humboldt
The famous green sailing ship "Alexander von Humboldt" has been permanently moored at the Schlachte in Bremen since autumn 2016 and welcomes its guests as a restaurant and catering ship.
Alexander von Humboldt
Visit the website
Jewel on the Weser
A commercial for Beck's beer made the "Alexander von Humboldt" world famous. As a sail training ship, the proud three-master travelled the seas for many years until it was decommissioned in 2011. Now the striking ship with the green sails has found its way back home and is moored as another gem at Schlachte. Speaking of Beck's: Not far away, the brewery can also be visited!
Berths for the Night and Delicacies from the Galley
Right next to the "Admiral Nelson", also known as the "Pannekoekship", 38 bunks are available on the "Alex" for that special overnight experience. On the premises of Bremerhaven-based BVT Brenn- und Verformtechnik Bremen GmbH, the ship was completely gutted and freed of all old wiring and pipes under the supervision of construction managers Jörn Haumüller and Timo Westphal. Some of the wooden panelling could be retained, some parts were refurbished, others redesigned. The large 8-person cabins, the so-called "puma cages", which did not bear their name without good reason, have become comfortable 9 double cabins and 5 four-bed cabins with their own bathroom (incl. washbasin, shower, WC and towel heating), TV and internet connection. The messrooms and service corridor shine in a friendly white that blends with the dark wood of the cheeks and wall panelling to create a harmonious whole.
In addition, the on-board catering offers a monthly changing menu with a selection of fresh, regional and seasonal products. Wines and exquisite drinks are served to match the dishes. The restaurant offers warm cuisine from Wednesday to Sunday from 11:30 - 21:30.
You can also rent the legendary sailor as an event location for private parties. The "Blue Lagoon", the captain's realm and at the same time the heart of the "Alex", which has always been used for official occasions, has been completely preserved in its original style. Small private parties or large celebrations with up to 200 people can be held on the ship and in the adjacent beer garden.
A Short Trip into the History of the "Alexander von Humboldt".
The "Alexander von Humboldt" was built in 1906 at the shipyard AG "Weser" in Bremerhaven. As a steel lightship, she initially sailed under the name "Reserve Sonderburg". At that time she had no sails and shone in red. From 1986 to 1988, on the initiative of Manfred Hövener and with the help of many volunteers, she was converted into the Sail Training Ship "TSG 404" at Motorenwerke Bremerhaven. The hull was given its typical green colour for the first time, the traditional colour of the famous Bremerhaven Rickmers sailing ships, which later, together with the green sails, became the trademark of the barque. At Hinsch & Ruhland in Glückstadt, one of the few sailmakers still specialising in outfitting large square-rigged sailing vessels, the first green sail set was sewn with a total size of 1036 square metres. Among Russian sailors, the barque still bears the nickname "Grasshopper".
After 80 years, she was decommissioned and converted into the distinctive green three-master we know today. From 1988 to 2011, the ship served as a sailing training ship under the name "Alexander von Humboldt".Since her christening as "Alexander von Humboldt", the ship has covered more than 300,000 nautical miles, sailed 10 times across the Atlantic and twice rounded the notorious Cape Horn.
Incidentally, the "Alexander von Humboldt II" has been sailing the oceans since 2011 as the proud successor to the green "Alex".
Book now
Beer Dinner on the "Alexander von Humboldt"
Beer Dinner on the "Alexander von Humboldt"
3-course menu in a rustic atmosphere with beer accompaniment.for groups
Reservation
Reservations under:
Phone 0421 - 38046224 or
info@alex-das-schiff.de
You might also be interested in...
Outdoor Dining
Schlachte Embankment
Maritime Bremen
Parks and Recreation
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Parks and Recreation
Parks and Recreation
Bremen's green oases: Where you can enjoy nature!
2,362 hectares of Bremen's urban area are green. This figure makes the Hanseatic City one of the greenest cities in Germany. Numerous parks, gardens, green spaces and green corridors criss-cross the entire city area. Each district has its own quiet zones to offer, where you can find space to breathe at all times of the year right on your doorstep.
Bremen's Bürgerpark
is located in the heart of the city. With a green area of over two hundred hectares, it is one of the most important landscape parks in Germany. Walks take you past playgrounds, an animal enclosure and a mini-golf course. Visitors to the park can relax on countless sunbathing lawns or explore the grounds on a boat trip.
An equally beautiful landscape garden is located in the historic
Wallanlagen
. They enclose Bremen's city centre like a green ribbon. The
Rhododendronpark
is an attraction far beyond the city's borders. The park, which is unique in Germany, is home to around 550 species of rhododendron. Since summer 2003, "
botanika
", the green science centre, with its fascinating plant world, has been inviting visitors to make extraordinary discoveries.
Knoops Park
in St. Magnus, a district of North Bremen, is one of the most beautiful parks in Bremen. Once a year, open-air concerts with classical music by the Deutsche Kammerphilharmonie Bremen take place here:
"Sommer in Lesmona"
. It offers relaxation, musical enjoyment and fun for classical music lovers, bon vivants and the whole family.
Parks in the North of Bremen
Parks in the East of Bremen
Parks in the South of Bremen
Parks in the West of Bremen
Parks in the Centre of Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Weser Beach by Café Sand
Swimming in Bremen
Blockland
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Findorffer Winterdorf - Winter Market
Christmas Markets
Findorffer Winterdorf - Winter Market
Findorffer Winterdorf - Winter Market
An intimate market with a friendly atmosphere
The Findorffer Winterdorf welcomes visitors for a get-together and some tasty treats.
When and Where
Mid-November 2023 to mid-January 2024
Findorffer Winterdorf
To the website
Traditionally, from mid-November, visitors can look forward to mulled wine, Feuerzangenbowle, light, atmosphere and numerous culinary treats. A special feature is that most of the vendors use only Fairtrade products and many stalls offer vegan delicacies. You'll find the Winter Village on the square on the corner of Hemmstraße/Fürther Straße.
Cosiness Away from Bremen's Big Christmas Markets
In contrast to the large, colourful and busy markets in the city centre and on Schlachte, the Winter Village offers a more tranquil atmosphere. Self-built wooden huts, atmospheric decorations and the surrounding trees create a cosy place that invites contemplation.
You might also be interested in...
Christmas Markets in Bremen
Winter in Bremen
Culture and Leisure in Bremen
Home
Culture
Culture
It is impossible to get bored in Bremen! Part bustling, modern metropolis; part historic Hanseatic port, the 'Pearl of the Weser' has a colourful range of leisure activities to suit just about everybody.
Things To Do in Bremen
Discover the diversity of Bremen! From exciting top events and free outdoor activities to captivating theatre - there's something for everyone here!
Osterwiese
Breminale
Five-day culture festival.
Freimarkt
The popular fun fair.
Christmas Markets
Museums and Science
Find out which museums, exhibitions and places of experience are waiting for you in Bremen and where you can find them.
Culture & Co. made in Bremen
Numerous creative people enrich Bremen's cultural landscape. You can enjoy many of them from home or in one of the city's diverse cultural hotspots.
Sixdays
Bremen Carnival
La Strada
Shakespeare in the Park
Bookable Offers Regarding Bicycles
Here you'll find an overview of the bookable offers around biking in 2024.
Summer in Lesmona
FAHRRADja! 2024. Bremen Cycles With You.
Musikfest Bremen
Site Info - Content overview
Home
Site Info
Site Info
Living
Residing
Districts
New in Bremen
Moving to Bremen
Family and Children
Shopping
Mobility and Traffic
Food and Drink
Bremen Specialties
Sports
Bremen by bike
Werder Bremen
Parks and Green Spaces
Seasonal Tips
Culture
Top Events
Museums and Science
Theatres
Bar meets Culture
Literature
Tourism
Booking
Tours and Tickets
Accommodation
Package Deals
Group Offers
BremenCARD
Gift Voucher
Experiences
Accessible Visit
24 Hours in Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Maritime Bremen
Sustainable Visit
Cycling Holidays
Service
Customer Advisory and Sales
Tourist Information Office
Location and Travel Information
Brochures
Newsletter
Sights
Bremen Town Musicians
UNESCO World Heritage
Legends, Traditions and Monuments
Culture and Events
Freimarkt
Christmas Markets
Bremen Convention Bureau
Education
School
Types of School
Studying
Universities and Colleges
Studi-Life
Support and Help
Extracurricular Places of Learning
Commerce
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/tourism/bremen-for-cyclists%20
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Tour of Beck & Co Brewery in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Beck & Co Brewery
Beck & Co Brewery
Bremen's beer is known all over the world. Take a look behind the scenes at the brewery.
Beer brewing is a centuries-old tradition on the Weser
For a brand like
Beck's
to remain on-trend, it is vital to be one step ahead of their prospective customers. The founding fathers of the brewery embodied this pioneering spirit over 140 years ago. On 27 June 1873, local master builder Lüder Rutenberg, master brewer Heinrich Beck and merchant Thomas May established the brewery Kaiserbrauerei Beck & May o.H.G.
Today, some 3,000 bottles of Beck's beer are opened every minute around the world. And they all carry the Beck's logo, normally a red shield with a white key, but some also have variations on the theme. This key to the kingdom of heaven belongs to St Peter, the patron saint of St Peter's Cathedral in Bremen.
And there are similarities with the city's coat of arms, upon which the logo was based from 1876 onwards. In their search for an appropriate symbol, the brewery founders originally wanted to use the city's coat of arms, but the idea was resisted by the local authority as it did not want to be associated with the production of alcohol. In the end it was decided to alter the logo a little and flip the key vertically. The result was acceptable to both parties and has been used as the logo for the brand and the brewery ever since.
Tour of Beck's Brewery
A tour of Beck's Brewery provides a wealth of fascinating information about the art of brewing and the Beck's and Haake-Beck brands. As well as looking round the museum, visitors can see the ingredients store and brewhouse, the malt silos, and the fermentation and storage tanks. Two ten-minute films and a cinema presentation complete the tour. Afterwards, there is an opportunity to sample the beers.
Book now
Beck's and Haake-Beck exclusive tour
Beck's and Haake-Beck exclusive tour
Offer for groups
'Alex' - ship with green sails
A brewery tour can easily be combined with a visit to the
Alexander von Humboldt
, the iconic three-masted ship used in promoting Beck's beer. German TV viewers will recall the advertisement with the bright green sails and the distinctive sound of 'Sail Away' by Joe Cocker. The Alexander von Humboldt has done more than 500,000 nautical miles, crossed the Atlantic several times and circumnavigated Cape Horn. Nowadays the ship, known as Alex, serves as a floating hotel and restaurant.
Book now
Beer dinner on the "Alex"
Beer dinner on the "Alex"
BremenCARD - All you need to know about the ticket
Home
Tourism
Booking
BremenCARD
BremenCARD - All you need to know
Save money and explore Bremen in style!
Whether you’re planning a short trip with the family, a visit with friends or a romantic break, the BremenCARD offers value for money! It entitles the holder to attractive discounts in many of Bremen’s museums, theatres and other cultural venues. Use the card on local public transport and enjoy tasty discounts in selected Bremen restaurants.
Notes:
Discounts generally apply only to full-price admission tickets and are not valid for special exhibitions in museums. The BremenCARD is issued to a named individual and is not transferable. It is therefore valid only when accompanied by official identification. Participants’ names must be provided when ordering. The card is issued for specific dates and does not need to be validated before use. After payment, no cancellation or modifications are possible.
Customer Advisory and Sales
Advice by telephone and online
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Accommodation
Brepark Bicycle Parking in Bremen
Brepark Bicycle Parking in Bremen
Park your bike (and your panniers) conveniently and securely right in the centre of Bremen.
The people of Bremen love their bikes! It's not for nothing that the Hanseatic city is ranked 3rd in Europe among cycling cities: the routes from A to B can be reached very quickly, and there is plenty to see and discover on the way to the destination. The loss is all the greater when it comes to theft. To ensure that this doesn't happen and that your faithful two-wheeled companion remains by your side, you can find ways to park your bikes safely and securely here.
Brepark Bicycle Parking Garage and Bicycle Stations
Fahrradparkhaus am Dom
Wilhadistr. 1
Ride your bike into town and continue your journey on foot without any worries, while your bike is safely parked? This is now possible in the first
BREPARK bicycle parking garage
at the cathedral: There you can park your bike and luggage safely and comfortably.
You will find the BREPARK bicycle parking garage in the city centre next to the
BREPARKhaus Am Dom
. The car park has lockable bicycle boxes and 48 double-level bicycle parking spaces. There are also parking spaces for cyclists who ride larger vehicles: Six parking spaces for bicycle trailers or cargo bikes offer sufficient space. A station for minor repairs and lockers offer even more convenience.
Free parking spaces and charging stations for e-bikes
Use of the bicycle parking spaces is free of charge. The following prices apply for the lockable bicycle boxes:
24 hours cost 1,- Euro
Three days costs 3,- Euro
One week costs 7,- Euro
30 days costs 25,- Euro
The use of the integrated charging stations for e-bikes is included in the price. Users of the boxes receive a code card at the automatic pay station, for which a deposit of five euros is required. The bicycle parking garage is open daily from 6 a.m. to midnight. Users of the bicycle boxes receive continuous access with their code card.
You will find further possibilities to park your bike safely and securely at the
bicycle station at Brill
and near the pedestrian zone and the Wallanlagen and at
BREPARKhaus Mitte
.
Brepark Bicycle Parking Garages at Bremen Main Train Station
BrePark Fahrradparkhaus am Hauptbahnhof Süd
Bahnhofsplatz 14 a
BrePark Fahrradparkhaus am Hauptbahnhof Nord
Willy-Brandt-Platz 3
bicycle parking garages at the main station
The
bicycle parking garages at the main station (north and south side)
are centrally located in the immediate vicinity of Bremen's main station and the city centre. The bicycle parking garage on the north side of the main station is only available to long-term parkers, and an additional twelve bicycle boxes can be rented there. On the south side of the main station, the bicycle parking garage can be used for both long-term and daily parking. At the end of 2022, a SKIDATA access system was installed and the double-deck parking facilities were replaced. In addition, the bicycle parking garage has 40 lockers, 24 of which have a charging function and a tool station for minor repair work.
A day ticket costs 1,- Euro.
A permanent parking space costs 10 euros/month.
A permanent parking space/ bicycle box (north side) costs 15,- Euro/ month.
Opening hours:
South side: Monday - Saturday: 06:00 - 23:00 h, Sunday & public holiday: 08:00 - 20:00 h
North side: continuous for long-term parkers
You might also be interested in...
24-Hour Bike Hire
Cycling in Bremen
Guided cycle tours
Discover the Blockland Tour alongside one of our guides
Shakespeare im Park - Outdoor Theatre in Bürgerpark Bremen
Shakespeare im Park - Outdoor Theatre in Bürgerpark Bremen
The Bürgerpark transforms into an open-air theatre at the end of August
Every summer, the Shakespeare Company builds a stage with a very special backdrop - in the middle of the Bürgerpark. Experience great theatre outdoors.
Where and When?
August 14th to August 25th, 2024
Bürgerpark
Melcherwiese
bremer shakespeare company
Homepage
Open Air Theatre in Bürgerpark - Sit Back and Enjoy!
A special experience for theatre lovers and outdoor fans is the annual theatre festival of the bremer shakespeare company. For "Shakespeare im Park" the company moves its stage to the green backdrop of Bürgerpark.
This year, visitors can look forward to a total of seven performances under the open sky, surrounded by mighty trees and idyllic watercourses.
In addition to the Shakespeare classics "Measure for Measure", "The Comedy of Errors" in German and Turkish and "Macbeth" in English, the two classics "Don Quixote de la Mancha" by Miguel de Cervantes and "Pinocchio, for adults only!" by Carlo Collodi will also be performed. The highlight, as it has been for many years, is "A Midsummer Night's Dream". Here, however, it is time to say goodbye, because the two performances on Sunday, 27 August, are the last two!
The plays are performed in German.
Fair and Bad Weather Tickets
Guests needed worry if the weather proves too inclement to enjoy an outdoor performance. When the weather doesn’t allow for an outdoor performance, the play takes place inside at the Theater am Leibnizplatz. The theatre has a seating capacity for an audience of up to 300.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
ATLANTIC Grand Hotel Bremen
La Strada - Street Art Festival
La Strada - Street Art Festival
Bremen's public spaces become amphitheaters and the streets become a circus tent.
There are no curtains to go up or down on these performances – the street is the stage for "La Strada’s" artists. When La Strada is in town, Bremen’s public areas become performances spaces, its street corners, theatres, and passers-by, audience members.
Where & Whe
June 7th to 9th, 2024
Bremens c
ity
ce
ntre
La Strada
International street performance festival in Bremen
Every year in the summer, the street-art festival La Strada puts on a breath-taking show in the public spaces of Bremen. And the whole thing is free of charge. For three fun-filled days, onlookers can experience theatre, dance, and acrobatics up-close in a way seldom otherwise possible. The Marktplatz, Domshof, and Wallanlage are transformed into performance spaces for various artists.
The popularity of the festival has grown every year since its introduction in 1994. Now around 100,000 people come to enjoy the fascinating shows.
Breath-Taking Acrobatics and Poetic Performances
From extravagant productions and light entertainment to exciting theatrical acts, La Strada offers a varied programme for young and old. Around 120 shows by 20 troupes from 11 different countries await the public. But in these performances, someone in the public can start out as an audience member and end up as part of the show!
In addition to the day programme, the La Strada Gala Shows present performances on stage in the evenings.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
Market Square
The market square is the focal point of Bremen.
Antique and Flea Market on the Weser - shopping and stroll
Antique and Flea Market on the Weser
Store, chat and stroll along the Weser!
Whatever the weather, the antique and flea market on the banks of the Weser attracts flea market fans to the water. Almost all year round, people browse, shop and sell on Saturdays at the Tiefer - in a maritime atmosphere.
When and Where?
Every Saturday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. between April and October on the banks of the Weser (Tiefer).
Weser Flea Market
Shopping Pleasure by the Water
The hustle and bustle on the Weser starts early when it's time for the flea market. Sales tables are set up and boxes are unpacked before interested parties gather around the numerous stalls from 8 am to 2 pm. From antiques and junk to rarities, bargains and special collector's items - with a bit of luck, visitors will find exactly what they are looking for.
Store, Chat and Enjoy
Thanks to its central location in the immediate vicinity of Bremen's old town, many people consider a visit to the flea market to be the start of a Saturday stroll through the city center. Visitors like to use the flea market for a chat or two. Or they enjoy a stroll along the Weser before stopping off at one of the many beer gardens, restaurants and cafés along the Schlachte. In the summer months, you can continue browsing at the Kajenmarkt. Or, after their stroll, flea market visitors can set off on a boat trip from the Martini jetty.
You might also be interested in...
Shopping
Flea Market on the Bürgerweide and in the Hansa Carré
The River Weser
Theatres and Stages in Bremen
Theatre in Bremen
Theatres and Stages in Bremen
From grand operas to hit musicals, Shakespeare to Wallace, improv to puppetry - in Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer. All the world's a stage so far as Bremen is concerned, and shows appear on water, in cellars and on huge stages. Curtains up!
Bremen's theatre scene invites you to a diverse programme. In addition to classical theatre, there is puppet theatre, children's and youth as well as music and dance theatre. In our beautiful Hanseatic city, numerous venues offer space for stage art. Here you will find an overview of Bremen's theatres and their programmes.
Drama
Musical, Dance & Variety Theatre
Children's and Youth Theatre
Open-air theatre
You might also be interested in...
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Blockland
Home
Living
Blockland
Blockland
Between the Wümme River and the Meadowlands
Even though the Blockland is officially a neighbourhood of the city of Bremen, the approximately 30-square-metres of land in the middle of the nature preserves "Untere Wümme" and "Kuhgrabensee" is understood to be its own little village. Not far from the city centre, with more cows than people, it’s a popular spot for day-trips. With its the half-timbered houses, garden allotments and ditches, this area is fantastic for biking, skating, and walking. The fact that only residents are permitted to drive a car here makes it especially relaxing.
Impressions of Blockland
Quintessentially Blockland
The Blockland is a thoroughly agricultural area. Directly at, or just behind the dike, you’ll find numerous small to medium-sized farms, almost all of which are dairies. In addition to farming, tourism has been gaining in importance for the Blockland. There are numerous holiday flats to rent, and restaurants offer homemade cakes, delicious ice cream, and hearty Bremen cooking for hungry tourists. Despite these latest developments, the roughly 400 residents of the neighbourhood ensure the original character of their area is retained. Citizen action groups seek to keep the specific traditions and culture of the area alive by, for instance, speaking the local dialect. Of course, this means that engaged participation in the community is important to the residents here: Whether the historical society, volunteer fire department, or young farmers’ association - the sense of community in the Blockland is reflected in the numerous active clubs and associations.
Not to Be Missed in Blockland
Data and Facts
Population:
418 (Stand 12/2019)
Surface Area:
30,30 km²
Districts
Blockland is not divided into individual neighbourhoods.
Postcodes
28357
28719
Public Transportation
Apart from school buses,
no public transport
stops in Blockland. You can get to the neighbourhood on the following lines:
Bus Line 28
to "Kuhgrabenweg",
T
ram
Line 4
to "Am Lehester Deich",
T
ram
Line 6
to "Universität / Klagenfurter Straße"
Local Office Blockland
If you have any requests, comments or complaints about your neighbourhood, please contact the Blockland local office.
Weiterlesen
Good to Know
Motorised vehicles are not a welcome sight in Blockland - only residents can drive cars in this neighbourhood. Other vehicles are only allowed there with a "Deichschein" (Dike License). These are issued by the
Amt für Straßen und Verkehr
(Road Authority). Even motorboat owners are only permitted to pilot on the Wümme between Kuhsiel and Dammsiel if they are residents, or are en route to their permanent berth or shipyard. But biking, skating, or walking is the best way to explore the beautiful Blockland anyway.
Book now
BIKE IT! Cows, 'Knipp' and cult
BIKE IT! Cows, 'Knipp' and cult
You might also be interested in...
Blockland tour
Districts of Bremen
Original Bremen Sweets
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Original Bremen Sweets
If you've got a sweet tooth, you've come to the right place. Bremen will get your taste buds tingling with its chocolates, sweets and ice cream cakes!
Whether sweets or chocolates, Bremer Klaben or gingerbread liqueur: Bremen's small manufactories produce delicacies of the highest quality, made with love and passion. They not only make excellent gifts or souvenirs. Interested visitors can take a look behind the scenes and watch the delicacies being made on guided tours and visits. Discover Bremen's chocolate side, find out more about Bremen's products and be inspired by our tips.
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur (Candy Store)
Chocolate from Bremen
Coffee Culture
in Bremen
Gingerbread Manufactory Manke & Coldewey
You might also be interested in...
Liquid Pleasures
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Find gastronomic offers
Souvenir Shopping in Bremen
Souvenir Shopping in Bremen
Delicious handmade treats, coffee, beer and more.
Would you like to take a piece of Bremen home with you? Or surprise your loved-ones with a little something from the Hanse city? Here are some tips for where you can find souvenirs that typify Bremen.
Lloyd Caffee
The oldest coffee roasting house, that still roasts coffee in the traditional way, has been indulging taste-buds nationwide with its exclusive coffee specialties since 1930. In the roasting stores in Holzhaften in Bremen and in Vegesack, you can purchase all their coffees and espressos as well and other specialties.
Lloyd Rösterei-Laden
.
Hachez Chocolade
Those with a sweet-tooth will love chocolate from Hachez. The fine pralines and meltingly smooth chocolate, made from specially selected high-quality South America cocoa, can be purchased from the Hachez chocolate specialty store at Am Markt 1.
Beck's
As famous as Bremen is for its Town Musicians, it’s just as famous for its beer – Beck’s. Since 1873, the tasty Pils has been brewing in the Hanse city. Not only tours of the brewery are available at their visitor’s center, but also coasters, bottle openers, glasses, trays and lots more.
Beck’s Besucherzentrum
The Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
Since 2009, the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
in the heart of the Böttcherstraße has been enticing the public with their delicious handmade treats and traditional handcraft. You can watch the confectioners at their work or sample over 100 different kinds of bonbons here. The bons bons are not only delicious, but beautiful to look at – lovingly created in so many different colors and forms.
Werder Fan-Welt
You’re a Werder fan or have one at home? Then take the opportunity to check out the
Werder Fan-Welt
shop. At the east-curve of the Weser Stadium, more than 300 articles displayed over two shopping floors stand ready to make the Werder fan happy.
Konditorei Café im Schnoor
Among the lovely buildings in the Schnoor – Bremen’s oldest quarter – you’ll find the Konditorei Café im Schnoor. Traditional Bremen treats like Babbeler, Kaffeebrot, Schnoortaler, Schnoorkuller, Klaben and Bremer Kluten can be found here. Konditorei Café im Schnoor
Wine from the Ratskeller
In vaults in Bremen’s Rathaus cellar – the Ratskeller – treasure from Germany’s wine history is stored. You can learn all about it on a guided tour. Buy some to enjoy at home at the wine store located just behind the statue of the Bremen Town Musicians, where you’ll find a carefully chosen selection of wines from the Ratskeller.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Lloyd Caffee
Fabrikenufer 115, 28217 Bremen
Hachez Chocolade
Am Markt 1, 28195 Bremen
Beck`s
Am Deich 20, 28199 Bremen
Die Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
Böttcherstraße 8, 28195 Bremen
Werder Fan-Welt
Franz-Böhmert-Straße 5a, 28205 Bremen
Konditorei Café im Schnoor
Marterburg 32, 28195 Bremen
Wein aus dem Ratskeller
Schoppensteel 1, 28195 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Food and Drink - Culinary Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Kale with pinkel, labskaus and knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities do sound a bit like something you'd get used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea and connections to rural life forms the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. But the city's long coffee and brewing traditions also leave their mark, as do the regional delicacies cabbage, asparagus and strawberries. It's also impossible to imagine the culinary map of Bremen without the rollo, which was invented in Bremen, and the many sweets made here. Let Bremen melt in your mouth!
But Bremen is not only at the forefront when it comes to production, but also and especially when it comes to savouring. A large number of restaurants, pubs, cafés and manufactories invite you to savour their specialities. Whether it's cabbage and spelt, Labskaus or Knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities take a little getting used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea, the tradition of trade and links to rural life form the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. Whether it's a beer seminar or coffee tasting, a city tour with appetisers or making your own sweets - in Bremen there are plenty of opportunities to actively experience the culinary side of the city.
Schlachte Embankment
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
The delicious foundation of Bremen's town hall
Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. Not only can typical Bremen dishes be savoured here, but this is also where the cellar master poured the first fine wines back in 1409. Today, guests can choose between 650 different, illustrious varieties on over 70 pages of the wine list - praised by connoisseurs as a veritable wine encyclopaedia.
Ratskeller Bremen
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you under the town hall.
Brewing tradition
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 11th century. According to "Markenmonitor Bier", the Beck & Co brewery is the most popular and most popular beer brand in Germany. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing is the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen. A visit to the brewery's former advertising icon, the three-master "Alexander von Humboldt", is a great addition to the brewery tour. Green sails and Joe Cocker's striking "Sail Away" - who doesn't recognise this traditional barque with its eye-catching appearance? She has now found her home harbour at Bremen's Martinianleger. But Beck's is by no means the only beer brewed in Bremen. Craft beers are currently on everyone's lips in the truest sense of the word.
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Alexander von Humboldt
Dining on the world-famous three-master.
Coffee Culture
Who would have thought it: every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen, and almost every second imported bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. So it's no wonder that coffee culture is cultivated in many places in the Weser city and the city's long coffee history is continued on a daily basis. We Bremen residents even have our own word for cultivated coffee enjoyment: kaffeesieren. And in traditional roasting houses such as Lloyd Caffee and Kaffeerösterei August Münchhausen, you can take a look behind the scenes on informative guided tours, gain an insight into the art of roasting and taste full-bodied coffees. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Coffee Culture
Here you can get fresh beans, become a barista or enjoy freshly brewed delicacies.
Coffee Roasteries
Take a look behind the scenes
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Tips for your Family Holiday in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Families
Family Holidays in Bremen
Family fun in the Hanseatic city – top tips for explorers of all ages.
Visit Bremen on your next family holiday and enjoy the charming fairy-tale atmosphere. Take a photo beside Bremen’s famous Town Musicians, explore Böttcherstraße, Bremen’s ‘Diagon Alley’, then stroll along the Weser promenade and admire the impressive ships. Bremen is a compact city and many attractions are within easy walking distance just waiting to be discovered. Bring your children along too for exciting fun-packed days out in Bremen. Whether sunshine or rain – you can find lots of tips and inspiration here for your family holiday!
Experiences for all ages
Book now
The BremenCARD is great value for families in particular
The BremenCARD is great value for families in particular
Take advantage of a wide range of inclusive deals.
Book now
Hotels for your family holiday
Hotels for your family holiday
You can book directly here.
Book now
Lantern-light tour with a night watchman
Lantern-light tour with a night watchman
Take a thrilling trip into days gone by with your children.
Activities for all seasons
Places with a special warm welcome for families
Bremen Town Musicians
The famous bronze sculpture.
The Bremer Loch (Hole of Bremen)
Animal melodies from the Town Musicians.
Böttcherstraße
A street and a work of art
Weser Beach by Café Sand
Schlachte Embankment
Ferries in Bremen
Cross the Weser and enjoy Bremen's shortest boat ride or set out on a short trip to the beach.
The Bürgerpark
Explore the large playground and animal enclosure.
You might also be interested in...
Excursions
Day trips to the North Sea coast
Activities
We've put together a number of suggestions on how to spend your day.
Shopping for Children
Must-See Attractions
Bremen Tourism: Visit the Hanseatic City
Home
Tourism
Bremen Tourism: Visit the Hanseatic City
Bremen's tourist attractions, hidden gems, insider tips and where to stay
The
Town Musicians
of Bremen are not only known world-wide. Their plan of travelling to Bremen is still a really good idea today. Bremen's urban diversity, vibrant culture and laid-back, tolerant atmosphere is what makes the city so fascinating. Bremen is always ready to welcome visitors with open arms, with its almost infinite variety of arts, music, experiences, gastronomic delights and scientific wonders, against the imposing backdrop of a
World Heritage
site!
Other Languages
Brême en un coup d'œil
Bremen in een oogopslag
Bremen de un vistazo
Oversigt over Bremen
Rzut oka na Bremę
Bremen - en överblick
Brema a colpo d'occhio
Let's go to Bremen!
Let yourself be carried away by the emerging wanderlust and plan your trip to Bremen to experience the Hanseatic city live and in colour. We have
adapted our cancellation conditions
for you to facilitate a
risk-free booking
of your trip
and corresponding experiences. Package deals can be cancelled free of charge up to eight days before arrival. Our city tours can be cancelled free of charge up to one day before arrival. Additionally, various hotels even offer free cancellation of bookings up until the day of arrival. Let's go!
Start planning your trip to Bremen now!
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
Bremen for Every Occasion
Bremen for...
Tips for Planning your Visit
Bremen's always worth a visit, no matter whether you're travelling with your best friend, your partner, the family, a group or on your own. In addition to its multitude of tourist attractions, this vibrant city in the heart of north-west Germany offers cultural and culinary delights, a laid-back Hanseatic atmosphere and an exuberant variety of activities and shopping opportunities. You'll find a wealth of insider tips and useful information to help you get the very best from your trip to Bremen here
BremenCARD
Discounts and special offers
Audio Guide
Experience Vouchers
Give Bremen as a gift
Getting from A to B Safely
Mobility and traffic
Experience Bremen in a Sustainable Way
Spend eco-friendly and sustainable days in Bremen.
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
ArtPeeks – ART'N'WALK through the City
Take a walk around and discover Bremen's art in public spaces
Original Bremen Sweets
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Original Bremen Sweets
If you've got a sweet tooth, you've come to the right place. Bremen will get your taste buds tingling with its chocolates, sweets and ice cream cakes!
Whether sweets or chocolates, Bremer Klaben or gingerbread liqueur: Bremen's small manufactories produce delicacies of the highest quality, made with love and passion. They not only make excellent gifts or souvenirs. Interested visitors can take a look behind the scenes and watch the delicacies being made on guided tours and visits. Discover Bremen's chocolate side, find out more about Bremen's products and be inspired by our tips.
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur (Candy Store)
Chocolate from Bremen
Coffee Culture
in Bremen
Gingerbread Manufactory Manke & Coldewey
You might also be interested in...
Liquid Pleasures
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Find gastronomic offers
24 Hours in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
24 Hours in Bremen
24 Hours in Bremen
Tips for a Day in the City by the Weser
Bremen is as diverse, colorful and interesting as the people who live here. There is so much to discover in the diverse city on the Weser, so many stories to learn and so many adventures to experience that 24 hours would never be enough. But you are only here for one day? Then take your stay with the typical Hanseatic serenity: Let yourself drift and be inspired by our tips for 24 hours in Bremen.
Breakfast in the Viertel (10 am)
Start the day well fortified: In the so-called
Viertel
(Quarter) you will find numerous cafés and restaurants that prepare a delicious breakfast for you. From an extended brunch to a fine bean-to-go coffee, you'll find what you're looking for here. The perfect middle ground for a day that should not only consist of breakfast is the Coffee Corner at Sielwall. With a direct view of the hustle and bustle of the neighborhood, you can enjoy various coffee specialties, bagels (also vegan) and freshly squeezed juices.
Strolling in small Stores (11 am)
If you are already in
the Viertel
(Quarter), then you should take the opportunity to browse and store in the stores located here. Numerous small boutiques, specialty stores and grocery stores away from the big chains await you with an individual offer. A visit to
Heimathaven
is particularly worthwhile. Not only the wide range of different delicacies is impressive, but also the interior of the store, which has been offering delicacies for sale since 1874. You also have the chance to purchase various
Bremen Specialites
here.
Art on the 'Cultural Mile' (12.30 pm)
Now it's time for a little bit of culture. If you stroll from Sielwall along Ostertorsteinweg in the direction of the city center, you will pass directly by the "culture mile". In addition to the
Theater Bremen
, you will find the
Kunsthalle
, the
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
and the
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
, three institutions that offer access to different currents of art in their respective exhibitions. The Gerhard-Marcks-Haus is dedicated to contemporary sculpture, while the Wilhelm Wagenfeld-Haus focuses on the history of everyday culture in changing special exhibitions. The nationally important Kunsthalle Bremen presents you with works from 600 years of art history and changing special shows a wide variety of paintings and sculptures. The quarter itself is full of street art worth seeing.
Sightseeing (2.30 pm)
Not far from the Cultural Mile, a little further towards the city centre, clearly visible signposts on your left point to the
Schnoor Quarter
. From here you can start a short sightseeing tour that covers some of the
Must-See Sights
.
The Schnoor is Bremen's oldest quarter. In this medieval quarter, colourful little houses are strung together like pearls on a string (Schnoor). The houses are home to numerous small shops and cafés - the perfect opportunity to stop for a bite to eat.
From the Schnoor, you pass the stately
St. Peters Cathedral
to Bremen's "parlour", the
Market Square
. Here you'll find numerous buildings worth seeing, but above all the city's impressive town hall and Bremen's Roland statue, which together are
UNESCO World Heritage Sites
.
At the town hall you will also find the bronze monument to the
Bremen Town Musicians
, a reminder of the Brothers Grimm fairytale of the same name.
Opposite the town hall, at the other end of the market square, is the entrance to
Böttcherstraße
. Bremen's secret main street is a unique work of art with its expressionist brick architecture, artistically designed by Bernhard Hoetger. Don't miss the "Haus des Glockenspiels" (House of the Chimes), where 30 Meissen porcelain bells ring out every hour on the hour from January to March at 12 noon, 3 pm and 6 pm and from April to December between 12 noon and 6 pm.
By the way: We have a
free audio guide
for you, with which you can discover Bremen's sights on your own, but still learn a lot of interesting facts from the professionals.
Book now
Guided Tour of the Town Hall
Guided Tour of the Town Hall
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
City Center Stroll (4.30 pm)
Once you have seen all these sights, you are already in the middle of the
city centre
. Here you will find many well-known shops, but also smaller boutiques to shop to your heart's content. At various corners you will also find places to take a coffee break - in Bremen this is called "kaffeesieren".
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen.
Cafés in Bremen
Come and enjoy the many different cafés in Bremen
Dining in Bremen (7 pm)
If you're curious about what's
traditionally served in Bremen
, you'll find a whole range of restaurants in the city centre. Take a look at the
Bremen Ratskeller
or
Schüttinger
- these and other restaurants serve Bremen dishes such as knipp, smelts or labskaus. And if you're already at the Ratskeller, you can not only eat wonderfully here. The vaults, which are well worth seeing, contain over 600 years of wine tradition and the world's largest selection of exclusively German wines. It's worth a look!
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Book now
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Strolling along the Schlachte Embankment (9 pm)
Bremen cuisine is hearty cuisine - so you might be in the mood for a little digestive stroll. The Weser promenade near the city centre,
Schlachte Embankment
, is the perfect place for this. Let your gaze wander over the river and enjoy the maritime ambience. If the evening is still young and you are not yet tired, many bars on the Schlachte invite you to enjoy a beer, cocktail or wine - in the beer garden season even under the open sky and with a view of the Weser. Not directly on the river, but somewhat hidden in the second row, fans of good cocktails get their money's worth: In the 'Blauer Fasan bar', high-quality (and not entirely inexpensive) drinks ranging from classics to your own creations are served until late at night.
A Snack on Siellwall Crossing (midnight)
If you get hungry again at night, numerous snack bars around Sielwall Crossing will help you out. In many places you can get the Rollos that Bremen is famous for - flatbreads filled and rolled in a variety of ways, which become a special treat with different sauces.
A new Day dawns (9 am)
If you didn’t stay up until the wee small hours last night and are feeling rested and full of energy, you can make a little detour to the
Findorff
market before you set off for home. Open every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, this market sells a wide selection of fresh foods. You can pick up a freshly brewed coffee and a little breakfast snack to go at some of the stalls. And if you still have a little time to spare, it’s just a short stroll from the Findorffmarkt to the
Bürgerpark
, which together with the neighbouring municipal forest forms Bremen's largest area of parkland. This
green oasis
in the heart of the city is a perfect place for a leisurely walk, as well as other outdoor activities such as rowing or mini golf.
The most beautiful green oases in Bremen
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Coffee Corner
Holtorf Feinkost
Bremen culture / Kunsthalle
Bremen culture / Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Bremen culture / Wilhelm Wagenfeld-Haus
Bremen culture / Theater Bremen
Schnoor
Schnoor
Bremen Market square
Roland
Town Hall
Town Musicians
Böttcherstraße
Innenstadt
Ratskeller
Schüttinger
Alte Gilde
Schlachte
Blauer Fasan
Viertel / Sielwall
Findorff market
Bürgerpark
Book now
BremenCARD
BremenCARD
Book now
City Break Bremen Package
City Break Bremen Package
Book now
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
Book now
Town Musicians Express City Centre
Town Musicians Express City Centre
You might also be interested in...
48 Hours in Bremen
Bremen for Lovers
Look Behind the Scenes
Neustadt
Home
Living
Neustadt
Neustadt
Dynamic Lifestyle on the Left Side of the Weser
The Neustadt lies between the airport and the Weser River in the south of Bremen. The cityscape here is marked by Old-Bremen houses, especially in the sections of Buntentor, Südervorstadt, Alte Neustadt, and Neustadt. You’ll also find lively shopping streets and alternative cultural offerings, well beloved by the locals. Quieter, but still lovely residential areas can be found in Hohentor and Huckelriede, while in the section of Neuenland the airport and lots of companies are located.
Impressions of Neustadt
Quintessential Neustadt
Neustadt is a lively neighbourhood that is no longer "on the rise", but has long since arrived among Bremen residents. With no fewer than eight neighbourhoods, the district boasts a wide range of cultural activities and is home to numerous cultural players. The KUKOON and Papp, for example, offer plenty of space for culinary delights, socialising and culture. Neustadt has no shortage of restaurants, cafés and bars. Thanks to numerous events and its own
festival
in summer, there is plenty going on in Neustadt. At the same time, the
Weser
and
Werdersee
lakes provide Bremen residents with a local recreational area in their neighbourhood.
Not to Be Missed in Neustadt
Data and Facts
Population:
45.449 (Stand 12/2019)
Surface Area:
15,319 km²
Districts
Alte Neustadt, Buntentor, Gartenstadt Süd, Hohentor, Huckelriede, Neustadt, Neuenland/Flughafen, Südervorstadt
Postcodes
28199
28201
28277
Public Transportation
Train and Bus Lines:
1, 4, 6, 8, 26, 27, etc.
Night Lines:
N1, N9
Train Connection:
DB Railway Station Bremen-Neustadt, Regional Services in the Direction of Oldenburg & Bremen Main Station
Local Office Neustadt/Woltmershausen
If you have any requests, comments or complaints about your neighbourhood, please contact the Neustadt / Woltmershausen local office.
Weiterlesen
Good to Know!
While his big brother in the inner city is visited and admired by numerous tourists every day, the "little Roland" in the Neustadt enjoys a quieter life. At one time, residents of Neustadt had limited citizenship rights. In 1737, as an expression of their pride and independence, they erected a - much smaller - copy of the original. Since then, the little Roland atop a pedestal adorns the fountain on the south end of the Neuer Markt in Old Neustadt. Encircled by cafés and restaurants, this spot in the Neustadt is a hidden gem waiting to be discovered.
You might also be interested in...
Districts of Bremen
Learn more about what you should not miss in the different parts of the city.
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Böttcherstraße - Attractions in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße
Bremen's secret main street: Böttcherstraße combines impressive architecture, pleasure, commerce, art and culture to create one of the city's most beautiful sights.
If you want to discover Bremen, you shouldn't miss the beautiful Böttcherstraße in the heart of the city. Built in the early 20th century by Ludwig Roselius, this gem is a true work of art. The street not only impresses with its unique symbiosis of traditional and expressionist brick architecture. It also has interesting museums and numerous opportunities for you to feast and browse. And a very special highlight awaits you with the Haus des Glockenspiels.
Unique Architecture
Built between 1922 and 1931 by Ludwig Roselius, the coffee merchant and inventor of the decaffeinated coffee HAG, Böttcherstraße was then, as it is today, Bremen's secret main street and a synonym for lifestyle. At 108 meters between the market square and the Weser, it offers a successful mix of enjoyment, trade, art and culture.
Artistically designed by Bernhard Hoetger, the buildings on Böttcherstrasse are a rare example of expressionist architecture. Unique buildings make the street one of Bremen's main attractions. For example, the "Haus des Glockenspiels", where 30 Meissen porcelain bells ring out from January to March at 12 noon, 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. and from April to December between 12 noon and 6 p.m. on the hour. At the same time, 10 carved wooden panels depicting famous ocean conquerors rotate on the front of the house.
Bremen's enchanted Diagon Alley
In Böttcherstraße, you'll feel like you've been transported to a Harry Potter movie set. Immerse yourself in Bremen's Diagon Alley and marvel at the unique brick architecture. You won't find any stores selling wizarding supplies here, but you will find special little stores - from arts and crafts to home-made sweets.
Museums & Crafts
Museums & arts and crafts
Museum lovers will find what they are looking for in two buildings on the street: in the
Böttcherstraße museums
. In the museum in the Roselius House you can see an important collection of Low German domestic culture and works of art from the Middle Ages to the Baroque period. The Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum is the world's first museum dedicated to a female painter and shows works by the eponymous artist as well as special exhibitions on classical modernism.
The Handwerkerhof in the Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum is reserved for contemporary applied art. Since 1926, you have been able to watch craftspeople at work here and even today, goldsmiths and glassblowers are still at work before the eyes of passers-by.
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
Book now
Guided Tour through the Böttcherstraße
Guided Tour through the Böttcherstraße
Bremen's Secret Main Street
Browse, Store, Feast
Many small specialist stores offer everything from souvenirs, gifts, special household items, tea and wine to glass art and design. It is particularly worth stopping by the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
. Here you can see how the colorful treats are made, nibble on one or two Bonschen (Bremish for sweets) and, of course, buy them.
Many stores are also open on Sundays.
Seven Lazy Fountains
The Seven Lazy Fountains stand directly in front of the window of the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
. Bernhard Hoetger dedicated his work of art to the well-known story of the seven "lazy" sons of a farmer. They were unable to find work in Bremen and moved out into the world: rich in knowledge and experience, they returned years later and applied modern methods to their father's farm. By the way: the four Town Musicians also adorn the fountain.
Public Transportation
Streetcar lines:
Domsheide" stop: 2, 3, 4, 6, 8
Bus lines:
Bus stop "Domsheide": 24, 25 / Bus stop "Martinistraße": 25
Night lines:
Stop "Domsheide": N3, N4
Böttcherstrasse
The Website
Park and Ride
A View of Böttcherstraße in 360 Degrees
Böttcherstraße Museums
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Bremen in een oogopslag
Bremen in een oogopslag
Hier vind je alle informatie die je nodig hebt om je reis te plannen. Boek accommodatie & ervaringen en laat je inspireren!
De
Stadsmuzikanten
wisten het al: Bremen is een fantastische stad! Ongeveer 200 jaar geleden gingen de ezel, de hond, de kat en de haan met z'n vieren op pad. Hun bestemming: de grote stad aan de Weser. Ze zouden gelijk krijgen. Bremen, dat samen met Bremerhaven de kleinste deelstaat van Duitsland vormt, heeft de charme van een levendige metropool. Hier gaan traditioneel en modern, de levenskwaliteit van de grote stad en Noord-Duitse gezelligheid hand in hand. Bremen is de stad van de kleine afstanden. Nergens zijn geschiedenis, cultuur en lifestyle zo sterk met elkaar verweven als hier – en vaak maar een klein stukje lopen verwijderd. Wie veel tijd wil besparen, komt met het vliegtuig: vanaf de luchthaven ben je met de tram in elf minuten in het centrum. Volg dus het voorbeeld van de legendarische Stadsmuzikanten en ervaar zelf hoe heerlijk het is om in Bremen te zijn!
UNESCO werelderfgoed: stadhuis en Bremen Roland
In het hart van de stad
Het kloppend hart van de stad bevindt zich op en rondom de historische
Marktplatz
. Tegenover de
St. Petri Dom
staat hier de stenen
Roland
, het symbool van de onafhankelijkheid van Bremen. Samen met het schitterende
stadhuis
behoort dit standbeeld tot het culturele Werelderfgoed van de UNESCO. Vlak daarnaast staat het beeld van de
Stadsmuzikanten
, dat een geliefd object is voor een herinneringsfoto. Via de
Böttcherstraße
, een architectonisch hoogtepunt vol verrassingen, kom je op de
Schlachte, de promenade aan de oever
van de Weser. Een verfrissend drankje in de hand, het uitzicht op de Weser en de in het avondlicht glinsterende ondergaande zon – dat is vakantiestemming ten top! Overigens ligt hier ook het wereldwijd bekende restaurant- en hotelschip
Alexander von Humboldt
uit de tv-reclame voor anker. Vanaf de Schlachte is het dan nog maar een paar stappen naar de
Schnoor
, de middeleeuwse binnenstad met zijn smalle straatjes en schilderachtige huisjes.
Een paradijs voor grote en kleine ontdekkers
Is het nu een walvis, een schelp of een pistache? Over de buitenkant van het
Universum Bremen
lopen de meningen uiteen, maar één ding is zeker: binnen in dit interactieve science center bevinden zich meer dan 250 interessante tentoonstellingsstukken op het gebied van techniek, mens en natuur. En ook op andere gebieden heeft Bremen grote en kleine ontdekkers van alles te bieden. In de
botanika
met het rondom gelegen park bloeit de op één na grootste collectie rododendrons ter wereld, in het
Übersee-Museum
kunnen weetgierige bezoekers een reis maken naar verre continenten en in het
Airbus-bezoekerscentrum
in het stadsdeel Airportstadt kunnen liefhebbers van de ruimtevaart van alles te weten komen over het heelal. Wie houdt van sensatie, moet beslist een bezoek brengen aan het
terreinwagenparcours 'The Rock!'
vlak bij de op een na grootste
Mercedes-fabriek
ter wereld.
Echt genieten
De uit Bremen afkomstige groene exporthit met het sleutelembleem is overal ter wereld bekend. Een rondleiding door de
Beck's-Brauerei
met zijn rijke traditie is dan ook een absolute must. Maar de oude handelsstad heeft nog veel meer te bieden. Zo komt de buitengewoon lekkere Hachez chocolade hiervandaan, biedt de
Ratskeller
een enorme keuze aan uitstekende wijnen en ruikt het als de wind de goede kant op waait, in de straten van de stad naar vers gebrande koffie. Of het nu gaat om een kleine snack of exclusieve gerechten van topkoks – de Bremer weet wat genieten is. En wie te veel gegeten heeft, fietst de overtollige kilo's er gewoon weer af. Het is sowieso het beste om Bremen
op de fiets te verkennen
. Dat geldt zowel voor het centrum als voor de landelijke natuur rondom de stad.
Kunst, cultuur en curiosa
Het hoeft niet altijd het Louvre in Parijs of het Tate Modern in Londen te zijn. Ook de
Kunsthalle in Bremen
staat met zijn wisselende tentoonstellingen internationaal in hoog aanzien. Een kleurrijk geheel is het straatfestival
La Strada
. Tijdens dit evenement veranderen clowns, artiesten en dansers uit de hele wereld het centrum van de stad in een reusachtige manege. Niet minder afwisselend is het muziek- en cultuurfestival
Breminale
, dat met zijn vele podia aan de groene oever van de Weser jaarlijks 200.000 bezoekers trekt. Een bijzondere gedenkplaats is de
Bunker Valentin
in het noorden van Bremen. Hier krijgen de bezoekers een levendig beeld van de geschiedenis van de meer dan 10.000 dwangarbeiders die er tijdens de Tweede Wereldoorlog hebben moeten zwoegen.
Bremen boeken
Wilt u een privérondleiding in uw eigen taal?
Alleen, met z'n tweeën of met een groep? Op afspraak kunnen wij in verschillende vreemde talen een perfecte gids voor u regelen. Neem contact met ons op per e-mail:
info@bremen-tourism.de
of bel ons:
Hieronder vindt u de populairste complete arrangementen, bouwstenen en rondleidingen. Het aanbod is beschikbaar in het Engels.
Top Events in Bremen
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Leven en beleven
Vroeger grote schepen, tegenwoordig moderne gebouwen: sinds het begin van deze eeuw ontstaat er in
Überseestadt
, de vroegere havenwijk, een geheel nieuw stadsdeel met een mix van woningbouw, utiliteitsbouw, recreatie en cultuur. Oud en vertrouwd daarentegen is het levendige
Viertel
, de uitgaansbuurt van Bremen. In de talloze café, restaurants en discotheken die hier te vinden zijn, ontmoeten creatieve geesten, studenten en andere nachtbrakers elkaar. Twee evenementen moeten bezoekers overigens beslist in hun agenda noteren: de
Freimarkt
, het grootste volksfeest van Noord-Duitsland en het antwoord van Bremen op het Oktoberfest in München, en de Bremer
kerstmarkt
, die met zijn '
Schlachtezauber
' tot de mooiste kerstmarkten van Europa behoort.
Toegankelijkheid in Bremen
Bremen doet veel moeite om de toegankelijkheid te garanderen.
Bremen in het kort
Historische Hanzestad met een geschiedenis van meer dan 1.200 jaar
Op tien na grootste stad van Duitsland met ca. 550.000 inwoners
Samen met Bremerhaven de kleinste deelstaat van Duitsland
Derde fietsstad van Europa
Internationale luchthaven, op 11 minuten rijden met de tram van het stadscentrum IC/ICE-station, reistijd naar Hamburg/
Hannover: 1 uur, Berlijn: 3 uur
Stad van de lucht- en ruimtevaart en van de auto-industrie, universiteitsstad (universiteit met ‘excellent’-keurmerk), vier hogescholen en ca. vijftig onderzoeksinstituten
Bestemmingen voor uitstapjes in de omgeving: zeestad Bremerhaven, kunstenaarskolonie Worpswede, Meyer Werft Papenburg, Noordzee-eiland Helgoland
Bremen's Coffee History
Home
Living
Food and Drink
Bremen's Coffee History
Bremen's Coffee History
There is no other city in Germany that is as closely associated with the word "coffee" as Bremen. Bremen looks back on a long history of coffee - Europe's first coffee factory was built in Bremen. Nowadays, the ports of Bremen and Bremerhaven are among the most important locations in the country for the importation of coffee.
It was a Dutchman who first brought coffee to the North of Germany. In 1673, the Bremen City Council allowed Jan Jahns van Huisten to establish the first public coffee house in the entire country. A meaningful step: in the course of time, the "brown gold" became the favorite drink among the German population, even more popular than mineral water and beer. Today, 0.41 liters of bean coffee is consumed daily throughout Germany. It is noteworthy, that the most popular coffee producers are from the North of Germany, particularly from Bremen and the surrounding area and also from Hamburg.
Roselius and Kaffee HAG
Ludwig Roselius, a name that is familiar to many Bremen residents, played an important role in the success of the drink. In 1906, he founded Kaffee HAG in Bremen, Europe's first coffee factory and at the same time the first company offering a decaffeinated version of the popular drink.
Lloyd Caffee and EduScho
Over the years an increasing number of coffee companies settled in Bremen and are still known among coffee lovers today. In addition to the
Lloyd Caffee
brand founded by Albert Laube in 1930, Eduard Schopf launched "EduScho" in 1924, while Johann Jacobs opened his own roastery in 1907 since his "Special Shop for Coffee, Tea, Chocolates and Biscuits" had already been attracting customers for twelve years in the Domshof square.
Jacobs Establishes Distribution Channels and Variety
Johann Jacobs offered a total of ten different coffee blends - a large product range at that time. The merchant also contributed to the development of the service sector as he was the first one who delivered his products to individual customers and bulk consumers in the Bremen area. Thereby, the popularity of the brand increased. Today, the product range of Jacobs includes whole bean and ground coffee as well as coffee pods, instant coffee, TASSIMO products and various specialties.
The Importance of the Ports
Both ports of the federal state Bremen played an important role back in the day and still do so today as every second bean in Germany is imported via Bremen or
Bremerhaven
. Especially the
Überseestadt
is an important location, particularly due to the companies that are based in this neighborhood. Various streets in the Überseestadt are reminiscent of the coffee roasting beginnings in the Hanseatic city. In the street "Am Kaffee-Quartier", which borders Lloydstraße, EduScho produced coffee for a long time while the "Johann-Jacobs-Straße", which crosses the street “Am Kaffee-Quartier”, is named after the influencing coffee merchant from Bremen.
The Coffee Business Today
A lot has changed since the early days: The Jacobs coffee brand now belongs to Jacobs-Douwe-Egberts, which is also based in Bremen and whose product range also includes Kaffee HAG and Onko.
Lloyd Caffee
is located in the
Überseestadt
and counts as one of the oldest coffee roasteries in Bremen as coffee is still roasted in a traditional way. EduScho became part of the Hamburg giant Tchibo at the end of the 1990s.
However, the coffee business in the city on the Weser is flourishing. In addition to the large, well-known brands, small-scale coffee roasteries contribute to the diverse coffee selection in northern Germany. Hereby, traditional companies such as
Kaffeerösterei Münchhausen
or Kaffee & Tee Hemken, which are known for individual coffee rather than mass-produced coffee, as well as relatively young companies such as Cross Coffee, which was founded in 2013, are equally important. The residents of Bremen are delighted with the diverse coffee selection as here in the North of Germany we are coffee lovers.
You might also be interested in...
Kaffeesieren
Enjoy coffee and cake the Bremen way.
Freshly Roasted
Check out the coffee roasteries in Bremen.
Schnoor - Bremen's Oldest District
Home
Tourism
Sights
Schnoor - Bremen's Oldest District
Schnoor - Bremen's Oldest District
Bremen's oldest district, the Schnoor quarter, is a maze of lanes lined with little 15th and 16th century houses.
The Schnoor or Schnoor quarter is one of Bremen's absolute highlights. Only a few hundred metres from Bremen's market square, the unique and oldest district of the city delights both the locals themselves and numerous visitors from all over the world time and time again.
Discover the Schnoor Quarter on a 360 Degree Tour
Like Pearls on a String
The Old Town quarter owes its name "Schnoor" to the Low German word for "string", and there's no better way to describe this lovingly restored district: Here, small, colourful houses and shops line up like pearls on a string, along alleys so narrow that you can touch both sides with outstretched arms. No wonder, then, that the US newspaper
New York Post
ranks the unique streets of the Schnoor among the "coolest" in the world.
A Must-Visit!
Today, the Schnoor is a thriving part of the city of Bremen. The quarter is a sight in itself, but if you're looking for a cosy café or arts and crafts, this is also the place to be. In addition, the Schnoor is also home to a museum - the
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
- a quaint little
"wedding house"
to stay in for newlyweds or lovers, and a small theatre, the
Packhaustheater
. The Schnoor is also home to the story of Bremen's original
Heini Holtenbeen
, the Birgitten Monastery, the only monastery in the city, and the Katzengang, probably one of the narrowest streets in the world.
Shopping and Enjoyment Seven Days a Week
A variety of small buisinesses invite you to rummage and shop in the unique atmosphere of the 111 pretty little houses in the Schnoor. While normally you can't go shopping on Sundays in Germany, here it is possible from April to and including December. Many art shops, galleries and souvenir shops are also open on the seventh day of the week.
In addition to jewellery, souvenirs and many other specialities, you will also find a whole range of
Bremen specialities
in the Schnoor. Some restaurants will spoil you with local dishes like labskaus, knipp or brown cabbage, and bakeries, confectioners and cafés will sweeten your day with
sugary treats
like Bremer Kluten, Schnoorkuller, Kaffeebrot,
Klaben
or Babbeler. A very special highlight is the colourful candy workshop of the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
in the Materburg. Here you can watch confectioners lovingly making fudge, marshmallows and of course candies, or even take part in a workshop yourself.
Book now
Engage All your Senses in the Schnoor Quarter
Engage All your Senses in the Schnoor Quarter
Guided Tour for Groups
Book now
Explore the Schnoor
Explore the Schnoor
Guided Tour for Groups
The History of the Schnoor
The Schnoor was first mentioned in the 13th century. It was mainly river fishermen, craftsmen and tradesmen who lived in this quarter. The oldest buildings that have survived to the present day were built in the 14th century. At that time, a Franciscan monastery was also built on the edge of today's Schnoorviertel, of which only the church remains today. It bears the name St. Johann and is one of the main sights in the Schnoor. At the beginning of the 20th century, the Schnoor developed into a poor quarter due to its lack of space, as cars, for example, could not pass through its alleys. What was perceived as a nightmare at the time is what gives the quarter its special ambience today. The car-free quarter is a wonderful place to stroll and immerse oneself for a moment in times long past. The medieval half-timbering of the more than 100 listed houses, the ancient cobblestones and the unique atmosphere of the winding alleyways make visitors forget the stress of everyday life in no time at all.
Impressions of the Schnoor Quarter
Website of the Schnoor Quarter
Where to find the Schnoorviertel
Somewhat hidden, but still right in the centre of Bremen, you'll find the special gem that is Schnoor. From the heart of the city with its
market square
, world heritage
town hall
and
Roland statue
,
St. Petri's Cathedral
and the
Bremen Town Musicians
, the tranquil quarter is only a few metres away and within walking distance. Just stroll in the direction of Domsheide. From there, you can access the Schnoorviertel from the street "Lange Wieren" or take the path via "Dechanatstraße" and "Am Landherrnamt". A little further in the direction of Ostertor, Komturstraße or Materburg will take you to your destination. Towards the Weser, you will find the other end of the "Marterburg", which will also take you directly to the Schnoor.
Public Transport
Tram lines:
Stop "Domsheide": 2, 3, 4, 6, 8
Bus lines:
Bus stop "Domsheide": 24, 25,
Night lines:
Domsheide" stop: N3, N4, N5
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Universum® Bremen - Science Centre
Universum® Bremen - Science Centre
Discover and Marvel
Visitors to Universum Bremen experience a hands-on museum in the whale-shaped Science Center. The focus is on the themes of man, nature and technology.
Universum Bremen
Website
Milky Way and Science Shows!
Little explorers aged 3-8 get their money's worth in the "Milky Way" children's area. In addition, amazing science shows with amusing experiments take place twice a day. Fun guaranteed!
The spacious outdoor area resembles an adventurous adventure landscape and offers many more experiments in the open air over an area of 5,000 square metres. On the 27 metre high "Tower of the Air", you can experiment with the phenomena of wind and discover other hands-on stations. The climbing wall, the crawling tunnel and the moon-jumper require skill and coordination.
There are also changing, interactive special exhibitions on socially relevant topics.
Book now
Enjoyment, Fun and Discovery
Enjoyment, Fun and Discovery
Spend two nights in ATLANTIC Hotel Universum!
You might also be interested in...
Übersee Museum
botanika
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Products and Media Information
Home
Media Information
Products and Media Information
Key figures, performance values and advertising opportunities on the city portal
The official city portal of the city of Bremen offers the right framework for targeted and regional advertising campaigns. With around 7 million page views per month, the site is one of the portals with the highest reach in the region. The diverse content and placement options make it possible to address customers in a particularly targeted manner.
We offer regional companies the opportunity to advertise specifically in the content area of bremen.de and bremen.eu and the
Schwarzes Brett
. In addition, we offer a selection of products for private customers as well as for companies and tradesmen. For many products we offer a free basic entry. Find out more about our offer on this page.
Our Products
Schwarzes Brett for Commercial Advertisements
For commercial suppliers who want to advertise quickly and easily on the noticeboard, we offer the commercial one-time ad. For only 25.- Euro plus VAT you can place an advertisement with pictures on the notice board!
Click here
to log in to bremen.de.
Events
Present your
events on bremen.de
. The bremen.de
login
offers you convenient event entry. Read more
Advertise on bremen.de
Present your company effectively on bremen.de.
Direct Contact - Regional Campaigns
We will be happy to advise you on your choice and provide you with a non-binding offer.
Renate Strümpel
Tel. 0421 - 9600 852
E-mail:
renate.struempel@bo-bremen.de
Jana Horn
Tel. 0421 - 9600 855
E-mail:
jana.horn@bo-bremen.de
Laura Fiebig
Tel. 0421 - 9600 853
E-mail:
laura.fiebig@bo-bremen.de
Lena Buller
Tel. 0421 - 9600 857
E-mail:
lena.buller@bo-bremen.de
48 Hours in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
48 Hours in Bremen
48 Hours in Bremen
Bremen is a great destination for a city break. Read on to find useful tips for your trip.
Do you want to get away from it all for a couple of days, take in exciting new sights and enjoy a refreshing change of scene? Then Bremen is the perfect place for you. Our tips for 48 hours in Bremen will help you make the most of your time in the Hanseatic city! Explore the city’s multi-faceted districts, winding lanes and savour the maritime atmosphere. Not forgetting Bremen’s classic sights. We also have a few insider tips up our sleeve for you.
Day One
Book now
Guided Tour of the Town Hall
Guided Tour of the Town Hall
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Audio Guide Bremen
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
Old Town and Viertel ('Quarter')
Shopping
Day Two
Book now
Short Trip to Bremen 2 Nights
Short Trip to Bremen 2 Nights
Book now
Short Trip for Groups
Short Trip for Groups
Schlachte Embankment
Maritime Bremen
Cycling in Bremen
Überseestadt
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Kaffeemühle am Wall
Creamlovers
Stadtmusikanten
St.Petri-Dom
Marktplatz
Böttcherstraße
Schnoor
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Kunsthalle Bremen
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
Museen Böttcherstraße
Shoppen in der City
Das Viertel
Salon Obscura
Tandour
Osterdeich
Eisen Bremen
Perlen und Primaten
Die Schlachte
Alexander von Humboldt
Teerhofbrücke
Überseestadt
Lebkuchenmanufaktur Manke und Coldeway
BR Piekfeine Brände
Lloyd Caffee
Cross Coffee
Bremer Braumanufaktur
Freie Brau Union Bremen
Die Schlachte
Book now
Get to Know Bremen
Get to Know Bremen
Package Deal for You
You might also be interested in...
24 Hours in Bremen
Nightlife in Bremen
Family Holidays
Bremen Tourism - FAQ
Home
Tourism
Bremen Tourism - FAQ
Bremen Tourism - FAQ
Answers to the most frequently asked questions about online tourism bookings.
Questions about the booking process
What are the benefits of booking through the Bremen Tourist Information Office?
We are the official tourism organisation for the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen and a Bremeninvest brand. We are the experts when it comes to Bremen! We're based in the city and really know what's going on. We'll be happy to answer any of your questions.
Our carefully selected range of tours, visits and attractions for tourists covers an enormous variety of things to do. As a one-stop shop, we can help you combine different products to create your very own experience. You can always rely on our team of Bremen experts.
How and where do I make a booking?
You can book our trips, experiences and much more in one of these ways:
•
Online
• By calling our advice and sales team
on:
or by sending us an e-mail:
info@bremen-tourism.de
during these hours:
Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5pm
Saturday 9am to 12pm
• For group bookings: contact our group sales team at
Tel.:
or by sending us an e-mail:
gruppen@bremen-tourism.de
• In the city, at our Bremen Tourist Information Office, Böttcherstraße 4 in the Haus des Glockenspiels.
Opening hours:
Monday to Friday 9am to 6pm
Saturday 9.30am to 5pm
Sunday 10am to 4pm
How do I receive confirmation of my booking?
If you make your booking online, you'll receive an email confirmation from us when you complete the booking via the shopping cart.
We'll always send the e-mail confirmation to the e-mail address you provided when you made the booking. If you don't have an e-mail address, we'll also be happy to send you a confirmation by post.
For some experiences, you'll also be sent documents, either by e-mail or by post, when we receive your final payment. You'll find details about this in your booking confirmation.
Why should I take out travel cancellation insurance?
If you have to cancel your trip, you will receive a refund of either some or all of the fees, depending on the travel insurance policy. The reasons for cancellation covered by the travel insurance are listed in the policy documents. We strongly recommend you take out travel insurance.
Here
you'll find more detailed information about travel insurance policies and options.
Are there discounts for schoolchildren, students, senior citizens or other groups of people?
There are no standard discounts. However, you will find discount types in the different tickets offered for the packages.
How do I make a group booking?
You'll find our group tour offers here: This is where you can directly request the exact tour that you want, and specify the dates.
Our group bookings team will be happy to help you with your request.
Bremen Tourism Group Bookings Team
Email:
gruppen@bremen-tourism.de
Where can I find hotels, holiday apartments and private rooms?
Here
you'll find an overview of the hotels you can book via Bremen Tourism.
Where can I find out about refunds, exchanges and cancellation policies?
You'll find our terms and conditions by clicking on
Terms and Conditions
and in the city tours catalogue.
Questions about payment methods
What types of payment methods do you offer? How do I pay for my booking?
We offer a number of different payment methods:
• PayPal (only for online bookings)
• Credit card (Visa, Eurocard/Mastercard and American Express)
• Direct debit
• Invoice (for bookings up to 5 days before the start date. Not available for online bookings.)
Payments for
experiences
such as entrance fees or tickets for city trips and tours are due at the time of booking.
You can pay for
group bookings
by invoice and bank transfer.
The
Hotel packages
fee is payable at the hotel. A hotel might sometimes request your credit card details as security when you make a booking. However, the card will not be charged if you do not arrive or if you have to make a cancellation.
If you select
Package deals with choice of hotel
, Bremen Tourism acts as your travel agency. You can pay either by PayPal or credit card when you make your online booking. If you make your booking with our Sales & Advice team or our group bookings team, you can also pay by invoice.
You can then pay the full cost of your trip up to four weeks before arrival. No deposit required.
If there are less than four weeks between the date of your booking and your travel date, the full travel price is due at the time of booking.
We offer the following options for
hotel bookings
:
• If you make an online booking, you can pay at the hotel and present your credit card as security. The credit card details you provided when booking are for security purposes only and payment will only be taken in the event of no-show without cancellation. The hotel will accept payment in cash, by debit card/Maestro card or by credit card.
• For bookings made with our Sales & Advice team or with our group bookings team, not every hotel will ask you to present a credit card as security. The hotel will accept payment in cash, by debit card/Maestro card or by credit card.
• If you make a booking at the "Hot Deal" special rate, the specific cancellation conditions for this rate mean that payment is due at the time of booking. To make this booking, you will need a credit card, which we will charge directly.
You will be informed about this when you make the booking.
How secure is it for me to enter my credit card or bank details?
We use secure technologies to safeguard our users. You make your booking with us in a secure area. SSL encryption is used to prevent your data from being accessed by a third party. The encryption process converts the characters you enter into a code which can be sent securely over the internet.
Where will I find the Terms and Conditions?
You'll find our Terms and Conditions by clicking on
Terms and Conditions
and in the city tour catalogue.
Questions about the BremenCARD
How and when can I order a BremenCARD?
Online
, by telephone on
or in the city in our Bremen Tourist Information Office in Böttcherstraße 4. Many hotels also offer the BremenCARD at the reception desk.
The BremenCARD is issued to a named individual, which is why we need the name of a specific person when booking a BremenCARD.
BremenCARDs are
not refundable
.
How many people can I order a BremenCARD for, and for how many days?
Ordering a BremenCARD is subject to the following conditions:
1 day = 10,90 € * // 13,50 € **
2 days = 15,90 € * // 19,90 € **
3 days = 22,90 € * // 30,50 € **
4 days = 31,80 € * // 39,80 € **
* = one adult + max. 2 children
** = two adults + max. 2 children
In 2024 you can book the BremenCARD at the following conditions:
1 day = 11,50 € * // 13,90 € **
2 days = 16,50 € * // 20,90 € **
3 days = 23,90 € * // 31,50 € **
4 days = 32,50 € * // 40,50 € **
* = one adult + max. 2 children
** = two adults + max. 2 children
Where can I travel for free on buses and trains with the BremenCARD?
Travel for free on local buses and trains (bus, trams and regional trains in Bremen and Bremen Nord) and on the ferry across the Weser (Osterdeich - Café Sand).
From what time is my BremenCARD valid, and for how long?
It is valid on local public transport, from 6pm before the starting date on the card and up to 3am on the last day of validity.
What are the benefits of a BremenCARD?
In addition to travelling for free on the local public transport system (buses, trams and regional trains in Bremen and Bremen Nord) and by ferry across the Weser (Osterdeich - Café Sand), it includes discounts of up to 50% on guided tours, theatre tickets, museum admission, boat trips and much more. You'll find a list of all the discounts in this overview
How does the ticket work? Do I need to validate the ticket?
The card is issued for specific dates and does not need to be validated before use.
Can I transfer my BremenCARD to someone else?
The BremenCARD is issued to a named individual and is not transferable. It is only valid when accompanied by official identification. Recipients’ names must be provided when ordering the card.
Does my BremenCARD entitle me to discounts on already reduced prices?
Discounts are only applied to full-price admissions, not to prices that have already been reduced.
Questions about gift vouchers
How and where can I order vouchers?
Our Bremen experience vouchers can either be purchased
online
or from our
advisory & sales team
.
What vouchers are available?
You can purchase experience vouchers with these values: €10, €15, €20, €25, €30, €40, €50, €75, €100, €150, €200, €250 or €500.
How do you send me a voucher?
For an additional €5, we'll send the printed voucher to you by post. For an additional €10, we'll send you the printed voucher along with a Bremen travel guide and a packet of fruit gums.
How and where can I redeem a voucher?
You can use your voucher as payment for package trips with hotel selection, guided tours and experiences that are organised by Bremen Tourism.
This is Bremen
Home
Tourism
This is Bremen
This is Bremen
The Hanseatic city of Bremen is the vibrant heart of north-west Germany and home of the famous Bremen Town Musicians. It’s a city where different aspects of history, tradition, science, nature and culture come together to form a fascinating whole. Simply put, Bremen is well worth discovering.
Bremen Keeps Tradition Alive
Bremen, the cosmopolitan city on the river Weser, is steeped in history. The locals are proud of their Hanseatic heritage, but it’s not something they would ever boast about. They enjoy having a coffee on the market square outside the magnificent UNESCO-listed town hall, or a refreshing beer on the bustling Schlachte Embankment. Here, it’s easy to imagine days gone by, when ships from all over the world were docked in the harbour. Even today, you can still see traditional sailing ships here, such as the Alexander von Humboldt. If you walk through the Schnoor quarter, Bremen’s oldest district, or the elegant Böttcherstrasse with its distinctive architecture, you experience history at every turn.
Town Hall Bremen
Together with the Roland statue, the town hall is part of Bremen's UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Ships on the Weser
Schnoor Quarter
Böttcherstraße
A Street as a total Work of Art
Guided Tours and Tickets
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Bremen Fires the Imagination
A journey to outer space, a walk through a whirling tornado or an expedition to the tropical jungle of Borneo – a trip to Bremen can be all this and more. Sit and tremble on the earthquake sofa at
Universum® Bremen
, or journey around the world in 80 minutes at the
Übersee-Museum Bremen
. The knowledge worlds of Bremen will awaken your spirit of discovery and your thirst for adventure. How about a visit to the
International space station
that was built in Bremen? Or testing your off-road driving skills at one of Germany’s most innovative car plants? Well, have you become curious?
Universum Bremen
Übersee-Museum
botanika
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour
Bremen is Brimming with Art and Culture
In Bremen, you can see works by great masters past and present. Why not take a stroll along Bremen’s ‘cultural mile’ and pay a visit to the internationally renowned
Kunsthalle art gallery
, the sculpture museum or the design centre? The theatre, which presents a packed programme of entertainment, is just around the corner. A little further on, right by the river, the locals celebrate their big summer festival, the
Breminale
. And the International Festival of Street Performance,
La Strada
, turns the city into a giant open-air stage… there’s so much going on in Bremen!
Museums and Science
Top Events in Bremen
You should remember these Dates in Bremen!
Theatre and Stage
La Strada
Breminale
Five-day culture festival.
Bar Meets Culture
Bremen for Culture Enthusiasts
Bremen is a Place to Enjoy Life
As well as being a “beautiful, historical city”, Bremen is also “down-to-earth” and “a stress-free, friendly city” offering plenty of opportunities for leisure pursuits. At least, that’s what Germans think, according to a recent survey. And Bremen is green! Not only because green is the colour of
Werder Bremen
football club and Beck’s brewery. The city is also home to a whole host of lush green spaces,
idyllic parks and enchanting gardens
. They all make discovering
Bremen by bike
a particular pleasure. But this also a city that is proud of its culinary traditions. Exquisite chocolate, fine wines, rich-tasting coffee and refreshing beer – this historical trading port is home to many famous brands. Bremen is known for producing wonderful foods and drinks, and the locals are known for their appreciation of it. The array of restaurants, bars, cafés and local producers means there’s no shortage of places to enjoy the finer things in life.
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Culinary Bremen
Let Bremen melt on your tongue.
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Sweet Delicacies in Bremen
Brewery Culture in Bremen
Cocktailbars
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
Bremen Offers an Innovative Environment for Strong Sectors
The Bremen region may be relatively small, but what it lacks in size it more than makes up for in its capacity for innovation, its commercial strength and its entrepreneurial spirit. This cosmopolitan city state has expertise in the maritime economy and logistics, wind energy, automotive and the space and aeronautics industries – and is a global player in all of them. Numerous highly respected research institutes are based in Bremen and help to put new ideas and solutions into practice in close collaboration with business.
Getting Around
The tram takes you from the city centre to the main terminal of Bremen Airport in just eleven minutes. And from the main train station, it’s a three-minute walk to the exhibition grounds and around ten minutes to the city centre. Bremen really is a city where you never have to travel too far – it can be easily explored on foot or
by bike
, or you can use the
local public transport
.
Science and Research – An Important Driving Force
Over 30,000 students are enrolled on several hundred courses in the federal state of Bremen, which comprises the cities of Bremen and Bremerhaven. There are also numerous non-university research centres that form part of the research community in these cities on the Weser river. Science and research are an important driving force in the development of Bremen and Bremerhaven, and have close links to almost all areas of life. And it’s thanks to this thriving research community that highly qualified and talented young professionals are attracted here – much to the benefit of innovative local companies, and to life in the city in general. The universities and the research institutes are also playing their part in shaping the cityscape. The Fallturm drop tower and the
Universum
, for example, have become Bremen landmarks, and are as much symbols of the research community as the town hall and the Roland statue are for the city of Bremen.
Bremen Has Many Facets – Discover Them Now!
Best of Bremen
Many stories about Bremens uniqueness.
Book now
Get to Know Bremen
Get to Know Bremen
Package Deal for You
Schlachte-Zauber - Christmas Market on the Weser River
Christmas Markets
Schlachte-Zauber - Christmas Market on the Weser River
Schlachte-Zauber - Christmas Market on the Weser River
In winter, the Weser promenade is transformed into a sea of light and festive sounds: The magical Schlachte-Zauber invites you to a special kind of Christmas market!
The Schlachte-Zauber on the Weser Promenade is a hearty affair: the smell of wood, roast meat and spices is in the air. At the medieval wooden stalls you can taste mead or fruit wine and watch the craftsmen at work.
Where & When
November 25th to December 23rd, 2024
On the Weser Promenade, Schlachte
Opening hours:
Mon. to Thu. 11 a.m. - 8:30 p.m.
Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Sun. 11 - 20:30 h
Schlachtezauber
Official website
Magical Christmas time on Bremen's lifeline
Every year in Advent, the Weser Promenade invites you to a wintry and maritime market: the Schlachte Magic. As soon as the sun sets, the
Schlachte Embankment
is bathed in blue light at this very special time of year and takes on an almost magical atmosphere. In the rustic ambience you walk in the footsteps of times gone by. Many, many small wooden huts await you with their tempting delicacies. Artisans offer their wares at various stalls and often even give you a glimpse of their work. Immerse yourself in the wonderful atmosphere of the Schlachte-Zauber, let yourself go and take a break from everyday life!
Colourful programme, delicacies and more at the Schlachte-Zauber
The Christmas-decorated sales huts and festively lit ships will whet your appetite for a hot waffle, a strong mocha or a warming mead. All this and much more is available in the historic pirate village in the style of the Hanseatic League, one of the highlights of the Schlachte-Zauber. Open-air performances, small games and music provide the perfect accompaniment to the many delicacies and opportunities to browse for gifts. Minstrels, musicians and jugglers are on the road every day.
A little further along the Weser, lovingly decorated winter huts will warm your heart. In the far north, you'll feel transported to the exuberant atmosphere of alpine huts and enjoy the atmosphere with mulled wine, eggnog and music. Many people in Bremen ring in the end of their working day here at every opportunity during Advent, while the Schlachte-Zauber, together with
Bremen's Christmas market
, is naturally a popular destination for many tourists, not only at weekends.
From mid-November onwards, the work is done diligently to present visitors with a unique event. The Schlachte-Zauber begins every year around the first weekend of Advent and runs until 23 December.
You might also be interested in...
Winter
Lichter der Neustadt
Christmas market meets art and culture
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Walle - Districts of Bremen
Home
Living
Walle
Walle
Greenest Neighbourhood in Bremen West
The neighbourhood of Walle is diverse and dynamic; people of all social classes live here. Making the local saying: "In Walle wohnen sie alle!" (In Walle live they all!) very fitting. Whether young or old, families or singles - the former dockworkers’ quarter in Bremen West is enjoying a growing popularity. That’s due to its mix of easily reached shops, cultural and recreational offerings, and finally, the abundance of green space here. Those who live in this neighbourhood reap the benefit of a central location with good infrastructure but relatively low rental costs.
Impressions of Walle
Quintessential Walle
Walle is an urban and cosmopolitan neighbourhood with seven sections.
Utbremen
was almost completely bombed out in WWII and its reconstruction was driven by building societies. The apartment complexes they built are today characteristic for Utbremen.
Steffensweg
is the smallest section of Walle, and has its highest population density. Because of its proximity to the harbour, this area was also heavily bombed in the war. Row houses built after 1945 characterise this section, which also includes the Waller Wied with its six streets and tiny row houses - known locally as "Heimatviertel" (Home District). Abutting the section of Steffensweg is the
Überseestadt
, a former port district that today is one of the biggest urban development projects of Europe. Old storage facilities and structures are flanked by modern city lofts, creating an interesting architectural mix. The infrastructure in the section of
Westend
is good, with supermarkets, small shops, pubs, snack bars and a weekly market. There are rotating art exhibitions at the Galerie des Westens (Gallery of the West). On the Waller Heerstraße, the 235-metre high TV tower reigns supreme. Also called "Walle Spargel" (Walle Asparagus), the tower isn’t open to the public - for several years now, a Peregrine falcon couple use the quiet of the high location to build their nest. The section of
Walle
lies at the heart of the same-named neighbourhood and, in addition to an ice-skating rink, swimming pool, cemetery, Waller Park, and the shopping mall Walle-Center, also offers culture. The Blaumeier-Atelier, an inclusive arts project, well known beyond the Bremen’s borders, has its seat here. Small row houses and Old-Bremen houses can be found in the tranquil
Osterfeuerberg
section. The Kulturhaus Walle offers diverse exhibitions and workshops. The neighbourhood library is found under its roof as well as the Musikschule (Music School). The section of
Hohweg
is mostly commercial but also has the largest area of connected allotments in the west of Bremen with many lovely, idyllic gardens.
Not to Be Missed in Walle
Data and Facts
Population:
30.889 (Stand 12/2019)
Surface Area:
12,238 km²
Districts
Utbremen, Steffensweg, Westend, Walle, Osterfeuerberg, Hohweg, Überseestadt
Postcodes
28195
28215
28217
28219
28237
Public Transportation
Bus Routes:
2, 3 and 10
Tram Lines:
20, 26 and 28
Night Lines:
N10
Überseestadt Bremen
Facts and figures, news, offers, property and more
Ortsamt West - District Management
If you have any requests, comments or complaints about your neighbourhood, please contact the Ortsamt West - District Management.
Weiterlesen
Good to Know!
Walle has a first-class public transportation connection to the city centre and most of other the neighbourhoods that lie on the right side of the Weser. And, the number 26 bus can be taken for a little city sightseeing tour! First it goes through the neighbourhoods of Walle and
Findorff
, then it passes the Bürgerpark on its way to the Central Train Station, and then drives on in the direction of the Weser. Enjoy the picturesque view of the river while driving over the Bürgermeister-Smidt Bridge. On the other side of the Weser, it drives all the way through Neustadt to the depot in Huckelriede. From there it’s just a short walk to the
Werdersee
!
You might also be interested in...
Districts of Bremen
Learn more about what you should not miss in the different parts of the city.
Top Events in Bremen
Christmas Market in Bremen 2024
Christmas Markets
Christmas Market in Bremen 2024
Christmas Market in Bremen 2024
Lights, stalls and the scent of candles invite you to a contemplative stroll through the city. Get into the festive mood at Bremen's Christmas market!
In the run-up to Christmas, most people are in a state of turmoil: gifts and trees have to be bought, the flat decorated and festivities planned. It can easily happen that the days of Advent pass by without a reflective festive mood arising. The solution: Let's go to Bremen's Christmas market!
Where & When
At the "Bremer Marktplatz"
November 25th to December 23rd, 2024
Mon. to Thu. 10am - 08:30pm
Fri. to Sat. 10am - 09pm
Sun. 11am - 08:30pm
Christmas Market
Official website
Christmas flair around Bremen's market square
Every year at the Christmas market in the city centre, numerous stalls and booths invite visitors to linger, chat and drink mulled wine. Between the town hall and the Town Musicians, Roland and Schütting, a wintry village of stalls and carousels is created. The scent of biscuits, beeswax and mulled wine creates a cosy atmosphere.
Culinary delicacies, original gift ideas and warming accessories are presented at the many stalls. Here you can buy Christmas gifts and sample tasty treats. The Christmas lights and decorated little houses create an atmospheric ambience. Many Bremen residents ring in the end of their working day here at every opportunity during the Advent season, while the Bremen Christmas Market is also a popular destination for numerous tourists, along with the
Schlachte-Zauber
, which is only a few minutes' walk away.
Enjoy Bremen's Christmas market with its very special magic.
Impressions of the Christmas Market in Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Winter
Christmas Markets in Bremen
Findorff Winter Village at the Schlachthof
Bremen - UNESCO City of Literature
Home
Culture
Literature
Bremen - UNESCO City of Literature
Bremen books, publishers and much more - this is where literature enthusiasts will find everything their hearts desire!
In October 2023, Bremen was named "City of Literature" by UNESCO, and not without reason. If you love reading, you've come to the right place! Bremen's literary landscape not only offers you numerous bookshops, but also publishing houses, readings, bookcases and literature festivals. Here you will find everything you need to know about literature in and about Bremen.
UNESCO City of Literature
On 31 October 2023, UNESCO included Bremen in the international network of Creative Cities and awarded the Hanseatic city the title of "City of Literature". Bremen is the seventh German city to receive this honour. UNESCO's Creative Cities programme links around 350 centres of excellence in various creative fields worldwide.
Bremen was honoured for its cultural activities and initiatives such as the Stadtmusikanten- und Literaturhaus, the LauschOrten, the Bremer Sprachmusikanten and the digital literary magazine Bremen. The city also boasts a lively festival and theatre scene, the renowned Bremen Literature Prize and numerous bookshops. The internationally renowned Centre for Artists' Publications and voluntary initiatives also contribute to strengthening Bremen's reputation as a vibrant city of literature.
Creative Cities Programme
In addition to Bremen, Berlin (City of Design), Hanover (City of Music), Heidelberg (City of Literature), Karlsruhe (City of Media Art), Mannheim (City of Music) and Potsdam (City of Film) are also part of this network.
By being recognised as a UNESCO Creative City, Bremen is part of a network that promotes sustainable urban development through the promotion of culture. As creative strongholds, the members create partnerships with stakeholders in their city and with other cities, exchange knowledge and experience, enable everyone to participate in cultural life and thus actively promote the local cultural and creative industries. It is therefore not only the literary scene that benefits from the title, but the entire cultural scene in Bremen
UNESCO Cities of Literature
Get to now more here!
News about the Application
can be found at the digital literary magazine
Town Musicians' and Literature Centre
In the coming years, a central location for Bremen's literary scene will be created in the Kontorhaus in the heart of Bremen's city centre. The Town Musicians' and Literature House, including a reading café and bookshop, will not only strengthen the scene, but also connect it to the network of literature houses. The venue will offer the opportunity to organise various events such as smaller and larger readings, discussions or musical and theatrical performances in a creative atmosphere.
By establishing this literary hotspot, Bremen is once again demonstrating that it is a cosmopolitan, tolerant and colourful Hanseatic city with a big heart for culture and innovation. This will create a programme that ranges from the child-friendly teaching of literature and the promotion of reading to the support of the literary avant-garde. The project already promises to be an example of an inspiring combination of popular culture and experimental creativity.
Literaturhaus and -kontor
The Bremer Literaturkontor and the virtual Literaturhaus are two central literary institutions in Bremen, which help to shape the literary life of the Hanseatic city with different focal points and which are to be brought together in the new Stadtmusikanten- und Literaturhaus in the future. While the virtual Literaturhaus has primarily functioned as a digital production centre since 2004 and focuses on literary work with children and young people, the Bremer Literaturkontor has concentrated on promoting up-and-coming authors and supporting and collaborating with Bremen authors in the context of readings, projects and workshops since 1983.
Literaturhaus Bremen
Go to the german Website
Literaturkontor
Got to the German Website
Literature Festivals and More
In Bremen, you have the opportunity to experience literature in new and different ways all year round. Some events have been a great success for decades and are well known beyond Bremen's borders, while others have emerged in recent years as part of Bremen's bid for the UNESC
The Black Children's Library
The Black Children's Library
in the "Viertel" carries diversity-conscious children's and youth literature that focuses on Black children and young people as the heroes of the stories. It is the first library with this focus in Germany.
Under the motto "Together we read", it offers a repertoire of books that centre on the realities of life and everyday worlds of Black people and thus aims to create more positive visibility and representation of Black perspectives. There is also a bookshelf for adults - all are welcome in the Black Children's Library.
Bremen Publishing Houses
Theatres in Bremen
Town Musicians and More than Fairy Tales
When it comes to Bremen and literature, many people immediately think of the
fairy tale of the Bremen Town Musicians
. The Hanseatic city is famous for the tale, which, along with other Grimm fairy tales, is a UNESCO heritage site. There are also many local monuments and attractions that take up or thematise the fairy tale, such as the
statue by Gerhard Marcks
, the Town Musicians' Play or the
Town Musicians' Express
. Bremen is also the last stop on the German Fairytale Route.
The fairy tale becomes participatory, multicultural and inclusive thanks to the
Bremer Sprachmusikanten
project organised by the Literaturhaus. Fifteen people from Bremen will tell the famous story in their native languages, including Spanish, Korean, easy language, sign language and Twi. If you can't find your language yet, you can send in your own version and expand the range yourself.
But the fairy tale is not the only well-known story to come from Bremen. Willhelm Hauff wrote a novella about the
Ratskeller
. Sven Regner's novel "Neue Vahr Süd" is also set in Bremen and David Safier was born in Bremen. Of course, that's not all. You can find more authors and novels below.
Bookshops in Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/tourism/bremen-for-business-travellers%20
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Traveling to Bremen: Arrival and Useful Information
Home
Tourism
Service
Location and Travel Information
Arrival and Useful Information
Whether by plane, train, bus or car - Bremen is easy to reach. Here you will find tips to help you find your way around the Hanseatic city.
Where is Bremen?
Bremen is known as a city of short distances. Many corners of the city can be discovered wonderfully on foot or by bike, the favourite means of transport for Bremen residents. Of course, the city by the Weser also has a well-developed public transport network. In addition, the centrally located main railway station and the ZOB (central bus station) as well as the airport close to the city make it easy for you to get here. We've provided some tips for your journey and orientation in Bremen on this page.
So where is Bremen located?
Bremen, the Hanseatic city by the Weser, together with Bremerhaven, located about 65 kilometres further north at the mouth of the Weser, form Germany's only 2-city federal state. Bremen is the smallest federal state with about 550,000 inhabitants in Bremen and 130,000 in Bremerhaven. At the same time, the Hanseatic city of Bremen is the pulsating heart of north-west Germany and home to the world-famous Bremen Town Musicians. A large city with many facets - history, tradition, science, nature and culture combine to create an ever-fascinating overall picture.
Distances to ...
Hamburg: approx. 120 km
Hanover: approx. 130 km
Berlin: approx. 400 km
This is Bremen
Get a first impression!
City Map
Here you'll find orientation
Bremen Airport
Only ten minutes away from the city centre
Bremen Main Train Station
Worth seeing transport hub in the city centre
Central Bus Station
To Bremen by Long-Distance Bus
Bus and Tram
On the Move with Public Transport
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
As a city of short distances, Bremen is easily accessible for all.
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Swimming in Bremen - Lakes, Indoor and Outdoor
Home
Living
Sports
Swimming in Bremen
Swimming in Bremen
Numerous lakes and swimming pools invite you to swim in Bremen.
Eleven lakes and 14 Bremen pools invite you to swim in the Hanseatic city. Our overview shows you where you can cool off, whether there are opening hours to be observed and which tips and addresses are useful on the subject.
Lakes for Swimming and Bathing Spots
Bathing Lakes with Lifeguard Stations
Most of Bremen's bathing lakes have DLRG lifeguard stations. The Werdersee, Stadtwaldsee and Unisee, Sportparksee Grambke, Waller Feldmarksee, Mahndorfer See, Achterdieksee, Bultensee and Sodenmattsee are monitored.
Bathing Zone Labelling
Flags at guard stations by the water provide important information about the surveillance, general conditions and risks at the beaches. Here you can find out how to interpret the different flags.
Weiterlesen
Water Quality
Have you decided on a bathing lake? Then find out here what the quality of its water is.
Weiterlesen
Approved Bathing Lakes
Here you can find out which bathing lakes are open for swimming and what the current water temperature is.
Weiterlesen
Open Air Pools
When the temperatures rise, Bremen's outdoor pools invite you to have fun outdoors: In the
Viertel
district, the Stadionbad awaits you. In the district of
Walle
you can enjoy the cool water in the Westbad, while the Schlossparkbad is available in
Sebaldsbrück
. In
Horn
you can also refresh yourself in the Horner Bad! In Bremen Nord, two outdoor pools invite you to swim - the Freizeitbad Vegesack and the Freibad
Blumenthal
.
Im Sommer gehts für eine willkommene Abkühlung entweder an den Badesee oder in eines der Bremer Freibäder.
Indoor Pools in Bremen
Water Sports
Swimming Pools in Bremen
Children's and Baby Swimming
Beaches in and around Bremen
Werdersee
Der Werdersee, eigentlich ein abgetrennter Nebenarm der Weser, lädt zum Schwimmen ein und bietet mit seiner kilometerlangen Deichpromenade beste Voraussetzungen für ausgedehnte Touren.
Waller Feldmarksee
Direkt an das Kleingartengebiet "In den Wischen" grenzt der Waller Feldmarksee. Mit einer Größe von 12,36 Hektar und einer Tiefe von 16,5 Metern bietet er ausreichend Platz für Badebegeisterte und Wassersportlerinnen und -sportler. Und auch das Umland lockt ins Freie.
Uferaue Habenhausen
Durch die "naturverträgliche Naherholung" ist in Habenhausen ein Sandufer entstanden.
Stadtwaldsee / Unisee
Besser bekannt als Unisee, liegt der Bremer Stadtwaldsee in direkter Nachbarschaft zur Universität Bremen. Aber nicht nur bei Studierenden ist der größte Bremer Baggersee ein willkommener Ort der Erholung. Mit seinem direkten Anschluss an den Bürgerpark ist der Stadtwaldsee bei allen Bremern ein beliebtes Ausflugsziel.
Sodenmattsee
Mitten in Huchting wartet der Sodenmattsee auf seine Badegäste. Wie viele andere Bremer Seen, ist auch der Sodenmattsee Straßenbauarbeiten zu verdanken. Einst als Sandquelle ausgehoben, sorgt der Baggersee heute für Badespaß.
Rottkuhle
Nahe des alten Dorfkerns von Arbergen liegt die Rottkuhle – Bremens kleinster Badesee. Als öffentliches Sommerbad sorgt der natürlich entstandene See in den heißen Monaten für Abkühlung und hat rund herum einiges zu bieten, was einen schönen Sommertag ausmacht.
Mahndorfer See
Der Mahndorfer See lässt Schwimmerherzen höher schlagen. Mit einer Gesamtfläche von rund 20 Hektar und einer Maximaltiefe von rund 15 Metern bietet er viel Platz zum Planschen, Kraulen und Tauchen. Und das alles vor grünem Panorama.
Bultensee
Badefreunde und Sportangler tummeln sich gerne am Bultensee im Ortsteil Blockdiek. Mit einer Gesamtfläche von 5,43 Hektar gehört er zu den kleineren Bremer Seen. An seiner tiefsten Stelle erreicht er eine Tiefe von elf Metern.
Badestelle an der Weser
Ganzjährig genießen die Besucherinnen und Besucher der Badestelle an der Weser in Höhe des Café Sand den herrlichen Ausblick über den Fluss. Vor dem Panorama des Osterdeichs erstreckt sich die Lebensader Bremens, die im Sommer zur Abkühlung einlädt und in allen Jahreszeiten als Ausflugsziel lockt.
Achterdieksee
Klein aber fein! So liegt der Achterdieksee in Bremen Oberneuland zwischen Laubbäumen und Röhricht. Mit einer Fläche von rund 7,8 Hektar ist der Baggersee im östlichen Bremen zwar nicht besonders groß, verstecken muss er sich aber trotzdem nicht.
Grambker See
Der Grambker See ist einer der wenigen natürlich entstandenen Seen in Bremen.
Waller Seebad
Waller Heerstr. 293 A
Vitalbad Vahr
Kurt-Schumacher-Allee 5
Südbad
Neustadtswall 81
Stadionbad
Am Weserstadion 13
Sportbad Uni
Badgasteiner Str. 10
Ein schönes Schwimmbad an der Uni.
Schloßparkbad
Beim Sattelhof 20
OTeBad
Koblenzer Str. 3
Kombibad Aqualand
Waller Heerstr. 293 A
Horner Bad
Vorstr. 75
Hallenbad Sebaldsbrück
Schloßparkstr. 52
Hallenbad Huchting
Delfter Str. 22-24
Freizeitbad Vegesack
Fährgrund 16
Freizeitbad Blumenthal
Am Freibad 5
Ein schönes Freizeitbad im Bremer Norden.
You might also be interested in...
Summer in Bremen
Parks and Recreation
Beaches in and around Bremen
Studying in Bremen
Home
Education
Studying
Studying in Bremen
Get to know Bremen as a study location.
With a wide range of subjects and research areas, Bremen is a diverse university location that offers attractive opportunities for an academic career. Over 37,000 students are currently studying at four public and five private universities. Learn more about the organization and student life in Bremen.
Universitys & Colleges
Studi-Life
Studying is more than just learning! Here you will find tips on leisure activities, catering and much more.
New in Bremen
Have you moved to Bremen to study? Here you can find tips for settling in!
Support and Help during your Studies
Numerous contact points are available to provide you with help and advice in various situations.
Studierendenwerk Bremen
Your contacts for topics such as BAföG, social counselling, psychological help and much more.
Accommodations for Students
Studying for Everyone
You might also be interested in...
Libraries in Bremen
Culture and Events
There's always something happening in Bremen!
Museums and Science
1. Introduction. Location. Tourist Information Centre, corner of the Church of Our Beloved Lady. We wish you a warm welcome to Brayman, the handsiatic city on the river, which is over 1200 years old. Brayman, on the River Vesa, is full of history and tales, exciting worlds of knowledge, and varied culture offers. We are delighted to be able to welcome you to our tradition-steeped cosmopolitan city. For your audio stroll on the historic route through Brayman's Old Town, you will need to follow the specially marked out route. This is shown by the silver and bronze coloured marker points on the pavement, which direct you along our tour through the Old Town. And this is how we'll be guiding you around Brayman's attractions. Please cross the tram tracks in front of the Tourist Information Office carefully, and also watch out for the trams. Once you have arrived on the Market Square and have found a suitable place, we'll start our audio guide tour with the history of Brayman. 2. History. Location. Market Square in front of Becksammarkt, Deutsche Haus. We will begin our historic and maritime sightseeing walk with a few details about Bremen. Neighboring towns Bremen and Bremenhaven, which is located 60 km north, are nowadays surrounded and also separated by another German federal state called Loessachsen. Both cities together form the smallest German state. The pursuit of independence was always of the utmost important for the people of Bremen. In 787 Bremen was established as a diocese under Charles the Great. Around 200 years later, Emperor Charles Otto I granted Bremen market privilege, so the town could develop into a centre of trade. The market settlement turned into a city. In order to preserve its independence, Bremen became a member of the Hanseatic League in 1358, the powerful alliance of cities ranging from Flanders to the Baltic area. Finally, the Imperial immediacy authenticated by the Linz Diploma of 1646 constitutionally confirmed Bremen's autonomy and independence. From then on, Bremen was a free imperial city. From 1806, with the dissolving of the old German Empire, Bremen was regarded as an independent sovereign free state and called itself the free and Hanseatic town of Bremen. In 1871, Bremen became a federal state of the new German Reich. After briefly losing its independence under the National Socialists, Bremen was re-established together with Bremerhaven as an independent federal state in 1947. Nowadays, Bremen is the 10th biggest city in Germany and has around 548,000 residents. It stretches in a long shape along both sides of the Weser River and is around 38 kilometres long and 16 kilometres wide. This means that Bremen has the lowest population density of all large German cities. Bremen's coat of arms is very well known. Maybe you've seen it already in a slightly modified form on a bottle of Bex beer, the worldwide renowned beer from Bremen. A special feature is the silver Bremen Gothic key on a red background. The key is the symbol of Peter the Apostle, the patron of Bremen's Cathedral. It is also interpreted as the key to the Kingdom of Heaven. Bremen is a large, modern city with unmistakable charm. Modern worlds of knowledge like the Universal Bremen or the Overseas Museum present science up close and an attractive promenade with ships and restaurants has developed in the heart of the city on the Weser. The varied cultural life of the traditional strong-willed, Hanseatic city gives Bremen its unique character. The Bremen Theatre, the Shakespeare Company or the many museums, such as the Weserborg Museum of Modern Art for example, one of the first German collectors museums. From the staging of musicals to big operas, down to its own theatreship, there's something here for everyone's tastes. Bremen's most important economic sectors are the automobile industry, aerospace technology, logistics, electrical and mechanical engineering, plus the grocery and luxury food industry. Have a look at the inscription on the Deutsches Haus in front of you. In English this is translated as in memory of the brothers who share the fate of our separation. Erected as a gild-hauled café using fragments of old houses taken from the old town, the house that bears this admonitory inscription has been reminiscent of the Division of Germany ever since its reconstruction in 1951. Now please set off for the middle of the market square to the side of the Roland statue. 5. Roland. Location, middle of the market square. Direction of view, to the statue of the Bremer Roland. Nothing illustrates the pursuit of legal and municipal independence more than Bremen's traditional landmark, the Roland. It is one of the oldest statues in Germany, which can still be found on its market square today. In Europe, there were a total of 55 Roland statues, of which 20 survived. The Roland in Bremen is therefore not the only Roland statue in Germany, but the oldest, most representative, most famous, and standing at 5.55 meters tall, is the biggest of the German statues. And together with the town hall, it is on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. But who was Roland? According to the Roland legend, Roland was a margrave from Brittany and was thought to be the nephew or illegitimate son of Emperor Charles the Great. Roland the Hero is said to have saved the army of Charles the Great in a battle against the Basques. The Roland legend originates from the old French song, La Chanson de Roland, from 1100. In 1404, Bremen's town council had the Roland statue built out of limestone, in token of the Bremen patricians claiming lordship over the city. Roland was originally made of wood, but was burned down by mercenary soldiers of the archbishop in 1366. Now, take a closer look at the Roland statue. The youthful cavalier is dressed very much in the fashions of the year 1400. With a tight-fitting leather jerkin over a chainmail shirt, a heavy linked belt, armor-clad knees, splintered legs, and long wavy hair. He is carrying a shield with the double-headed imperial eagle. The shield bears the inscription translated into English, Freedom I proclaim to you, as given forsooth by Charles and many another prince to this city. Thank God for it, this much I advise you. The drawn sword in Roland's hand is regarded as a symbol of justice, for the chief magistrate also sat at the judgment place holding a drawn sword. His long hair is the symbol of a free man, especially the knight, who was the ideal figure of that time. Can you also see the little face between Roland's feet? Legend has it that the countess Emma von Liesem wanted to give the Bremen people a meadow, so big that it would take a man a day to run around it. Herzog Benno, her companion and heir, chose a man without legs, who in the year 1032 used all of his strength to crawl around the Burgervider field, winning the land for the residents. From 1866 the northern part of the Burgervider was turned into a recreational park, which today serves the people of Bremen as a green oasis, and is one of the most important landscape parks in Germany. The distance between Roland's knees is around 55 cm. This corresponds to the historic length measurement of the old Bremer Eller unit of measure. The distance between the knees is said to have been used to measure fabrics in the past. The Bremer Eller is still used to take measurements in science and technology today. This distance is even used internationally as an important special measurement known as LMR, Length Measurement Roland, in special applications in space travel, underwater location or aircraft construction. The head of the Bremen landmark had to be exchanged in the year 1983. The reason for this was air pollution, which had done considerable damage to the statue. The original head can now be found in the Fokker Museum. The Roland statue proudly smiles in the direction of the cathedral, the official seat of the Archbishop, who had a secular claim to power over Bremen. With his defiant look he was said to make the Archbishop realise that the people of Bremen would not take any more orders from him, as according to the inscription on the shield, Emperor Charles had already promised them great freedom. This interpretation sounds plausible, but does not, however, necessarily correspond to the historic facts. Alternatively, one says that Roland is looking in the direction of Hamburger Straße to welcome the merchants coming from the Hanseatic city of Hamburg with Reich freedom and market rights. Legend has it that Bremen will never found her, as long as Roland is still standing. In order to prevent Roland from being damaged, the people of Bremen have fenced him in. The wall built around him during the Second World War even survived the bombs. Rumour has it that the Bremen people also have a replacement Roland in the councillor's cellar of the town hall for emergencies. Only the mayor is said to know where the emergency Roland is kept. Since the very beginning, Roland has been regarded as a landmark and patron saint of the city. Every year on the 5th of November, Roland's birthday is treated like that of a family member. The people of Bremen honour him with flowers. If you turn around, you will be looking directly at an eye-catching modern building, the Bremen House of State Parliament. Look for a suitable place next to the so-called Bremer Loch, a sort of manhole cover in the paving stones of the market square. It can be found on the left next to the House of State Parliament. By the way, if you drop a coin into the slot, you will hear the sounds of the Bremen town musicians. The money is donated to the Wilhelm-Kaizen-Bürgerhilfe aid organisation. 3. Market Square. Location, middle of the Market Square. Direction of view, on the Hanseatic cross down onto the pavement, and also to the houses in the northwest. It is the heart of the city, the Bremen Market Square. This is the place where Bremen was founded. The first people settled here on a former sand dune, and this is where Bremen's history unfolded, around the Market Square. Can you see the pattern incorporated into the cobbles of the marketplace inside the circle of columns? It is designed with darker stones so that a ten-spoked wheel is visible, the centre of which depicts a Hanseatic cross formed with reddish stones. The Hanseatic cross was founded by the Hanseatic cities after 1813 as a badge of honour for the Hanseatic participants of the freedom wars against Napoleon, and then reinstated as a medal in the First World War. Today, it is the most striking ground symbol of the city. Please note that it may be covered up if there are events taking place on the Market Square. Known as one of the most beautiful squares in Europe, the Market Square is a magnet and meeting point for millions of tourists. If you agree that so many people can't all be mistaken, then this square with its historic atmosphere will definitely appeal to you too. In the summer, you can observe the hustle and bustle and watch Bremen's residents and their guests pass by, while enjoying a delicious piece of cake in the outdoor area of the adjoining café. But perhaps it will also be the scene of fun celebrations, like during the Samba Carnival, the La Estrada Street Circus Festival, the Christmas Market, the Free Market, or the Music Festival, when the Market Square shines in all its festive glory. The Bremen Market Square is a work of art of urban planning, which developed from an early medieval trading centre. The square has always belonged to the people who gathered here, whether for exchanging goods or defence. Up until the 18th century, a large part of the public life in Bremen was played out here, on the Market Square. The city fort held its court here under the arcades. Decisions and laws of the town council court, and even death sentences, were pronounced from the balcony of the town hall. Great victories were also celebrated on the square, like after the Thirty Years' War, after the Seven Years' War, after the victory over Napoleon, or the reclamation of the city's own freedom in the year 1814. And still today, fans enjoy celebrating the wins of their football club, Werder Bremen, here. Now, have a look at the building on the north-west side of the Market Square, with the Sparcasse Bank and the Chemist, which can be seen opposite the rear of the Roland statue. These houses are not originals. After they were destroyed during the Second World War, they were converted or rebuilt. So, in 1958, the modern Sparcasse Bank building was hidden behind the Rococo façade of a townhouse. Which was once located on the banks of the Weser. Next to the Sparcasse Bank, on the west side, is the city council's pharmacy from 1896. The elaborate neo-Renaissance decoration of which was the result of a competition to improve the city's appearance. Now, turn to face the right side, in a north-easterly direction. Behind the tram tracks, you will spot the biggest piece de resistance of the Market Square. The magnificent Town Hall, which is more than 600 years old. Here, you will experience fascinating history first-hand. 4. Town Hall. Location, middle of the market square. Direction of view, Town Hall in the North East. The Town Hall was built between 1405 and 1410 as a market and council hall in Gothic style and is the most significant building that the city has ever constructed. The council of the city needed its own house and meeting place for its tasks. The area of the Town Hall therefore also corresponded to the number of citizens who were entitled to vote. 1612. In this year the Bremen master builder, Luder von Bentheim, gave the early Gothic Town Hall building its ornate façade, in the outstanding style of the late Renaissance in North Germany, the so-called Weser Renaissance. And who do you think influenced the architectural forms and façade sculptures? The Dutch architects and sculptors who shared the same beliefs. As one of Germany's most beautiful Town Halls, the ensemble of the old and new buildings, together with the Roland statue opposite, has belonged to the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites since 2004. It is an extraordinary late medieval Town Hall and stands for the municipal freedom of a city republic. As testified by the UNESCO experts, the Town Hall and the Roland of Bremen are a unique testimony to the civic autonomy and political sovereignty which evolved in the Holy Roman Empire. They even highlight the outstanding form of the Weser Renaissance in their reasoning. The eight monumental sculptures on the market façade are also very interesting. Cast a glance at the larger-than-life figures and recognize Emperor Charles the Great and the seven electors on the left. These figures illustrate Bremen's imperial claim to freedom of the Reich, and therefore the city's independence from religious rulers. And what is hidden inside the Town Hall? The two floors are each made up of one Gothic Hall, the lower and the upper halls. In the upper hall of the Town Hall, the Council of the City once got together to make decisions, develop policies and administer justice over the citizens. The upper hall is nowadays a representation hall, with the ostentatious so-called Golden Chamber, and richly furnished with wall paintings, decorated doorways and wooden carvings. It is regarded as Bremen's most beautiful ballroom. The Forbes Veda painter Heinrich Vogler designed the Golden Chamber in 1905, in Art Nouveau style, with lots of images of nature. The lower hall, one of the most beautiful Gothic secular buildings in Germany, is still almost preserved in its original form. The three-aisled hall, supported by octagonal oak wood pillars, has ornamental Gothic doorways in the east and west. It was previously used for market purposes or theatre performances. Nowadays, alternating exhibitions take place here. If you head off in the direction of the Cathedral later on, you can admire the new Town Hall in the back of the old building. Architect Gabriel von Seidel attached the new building in the Neo-Renaissance style as a harmonious extension onto the old Town Hall at the beginning of the 20th century. In the new Town Hall, you can admire, for example, the Gobelin Room, which was named after a large French tapestry from the 17th century and was originally planned as a mayor's room. Today, the room is used as a small reception and consultation room and is also ideal for civil weddings. The Bremen Federal State Parliament holds meetings every week in the Senate Room. The mayor of Bremen is the prime minister of the state and also has his official residence in the Town Hall. If you'd like to find out more about the Town Hall, you can participate in a special Town Hall tour led by the Bremen Tourism Office. Now, turn to face the Roland statue, which was built as a symbol of Hanseatic freedom. 7. Schütting. Location? In front of the Schütting on the market square. Direction of view? Southwest. You are now looking directly at the so-called Schütting. Nowadays the building is home to the Chamber of Commerce. The word Schütting comes from Schossen, which signified the paying of taxes. Between 1537 and 1538 the Antwerp master builder, Johan den Bueschener, constructed the Schütting we know today as a guildhall for Bremen merchants. Built in the Flanders style of the Renaissance buildings, it magnificently complements the town hall and highlights the status and affluence of the merchants in Bremen. The late Gothic West Gable is preserved in its original form. The East Gable, on the other hand, is a wonderful example of the early Renaissance in Bremen. The market front, which you are looking at, was redesigned in 1594 with elements from the Weser Renaissance. Subsequent changes were regularly made, such as, for example, the ostentatious neo-Baroque doorway with a flight of stairs that was only added in the 19th century. Above the doorway you can read the well-known quote by the mayor of Bremen, writer and journalist Otto Gildermeister. Buden und Binnen, Wagen und Winnen. The literal translation is... Outside and in, dare and win. This describes the daring nature, risk and profit of Bremen's trade within Germany, Binnen and overseas, Buten. Above the lower windows you can see the coat of arms of the Hanseatic cities of Hamburg and Lübeck and the Hanseatic contours of Bergen, Brugge, London and Novgorod. During the Second World War all but the outer walls of the Schütting were burnt down and it was then rebuilt within these old outer walls. Some more background information for coffee lovers. One of the first coffee houses in German-speaking countries opened in 1697 in Schütting. Now follow the Nagelroute, which follows along the left side of the Schütting through the Schüttingstrasse and walk to the entrance of the Bütcherstrasse to see the golden relief. 8. Bütcherstrasse. Locations in turn. In front of the Golden Relief, Handwerkerhof, and the Glockenspiel. Shining above the entrance to Bütcherstrasse is the golden relief plate entitled Der Lichtbringer by the artist Bernhard Hütke from Forbeswede. The relief marks the entrance to a street which was created from 1922 to 1931 when Germany was still reeling from its humiliating defeat in the First World War. Coffee merchant Ludwig Roselius financed the new buildings of this street to symbolize a renewal of Germany from low German-Anglo-Saxon tradition. The Lichtbringer was created in 1936 after the street with its architecture, in particular the abstract brick relief above the street entrance, which is no longer visible today, had become the target of National Socialist propaganda. It portrays the battle between the Archangel Michael and the Dragon of Hell, interpreted as a triumph of divine power over the demonic Kingdom of Darkness. You have now arrived in the 110-meter long secret main street of Bremen. The renowned pedestrian passage of the Bütcherstrasse is regarded as a synonym for lifestyle. Before you continue, have a look up at the building in front of you. High above, on the right-hand side of the gable, you will recognize the sandstone figures of the so-called Seven Lazy Brothers. The Seven Lazy Brothers are figures of a well-known Bremen fable by Bremen folktales writer Friedrich Wagenfeld. There were once seven brothers who were too lazy to fetch water from the river Weser. So they built a well and laid pipelines. Nor could they be bothered to pull their wheelbarrows out of the mud or to go to the forest to collect wood. So they paved the streets and planted trees. What do you think? Is this laziness or innovation? Decide for yourself. Now walk a little way along the street until you discover the Handwerkerhof craft center on the left. The Bütcherstrasse was once the narrow street of the Bötigmacher, barrel makers and coopers. During the Middle Ages, the street was an important connection between the market square and the Weser. When the harbour and all of its contract suppliers were relocated in the mid-19th century, the Bütcherstrasse went into decline. Another two artworks by Hütger adorn the Handwerkerhof. A bust of Ludwig Roselius, Bremen coffee merchant and inventor of the first decaffeinated coffee, Café Haag, and a well by the Seven Lazy Brothers, who are highlighted again here. Right next to the Handwerkerhof craft center is the Paula Modersohn Becker Museum, the first museum in the world which was dedicated to the work of an artist. Paintings from all creative phases of the most renowned German painter prove her outstanding significance as a pioneer of modern painting around 1900. Continue following the Nagelroute until you reach the Glockenspiel. Can you perhaps hear the sound of bells ringing? Then you're in luck! From May to December, every hour on the hour, between 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock, the 30 Meissner porcelain bells chime between the gables, and have done ever since 1934. And the house of the Glockenspiel on the neighboring tower displays ten carved and painted wooden panels depicting ocean conquerors and aviation pioneers by sculptor Bernhard Hütger. Ludwig Roselius paid tribute to bridge builders between Europe and America, such as, for example, Viking Leif Erikson, discoverer Christopher Columbus, the aeronaut Graf Zeppelin, or the crew of the Bremen, which was the first airplane to cross the Atlantic non-stop in an east-west direction, and is nowadays exhibited at the Bremen airport. Please continue your tour and continue walking along the Böttcherstrasse until you come to the aquarium, a few meters behind the Glockenspiel Square on the right-hand side. If you'd like to take a breather, sit on the bench. Between the years 1922 to 1931, Roselius redesigned the Böttcherstrasse into a complete work of art and gradually bought the seven houses on the street. Every house has its own name. The main architects were Alfred Runge, Edward Scotland, and Bernhard Hütger. Hütger designed the Paula Modesson Becker House and the Atlantis House, in which today the Hilton Hotel and the impressive Blue White Heaven Hall can be found. Opposite this, you will see the Robinson Crusoe House. The writer, Daniel Defoe, felt a connection to the city of Bremen and declared his novel's hero, Robinson Crusoe, as the son of a Bremen merchant. Badly damaged during the Second World War, the facades of the houses on the Böttcherstrasse were already rebuilt by the year 1954, mostly with funding from the Café Haag company. Nowadays, the tradition-steeped Böttcherstrasse, with its unusual architecture, is a little handicraft paradise, with small shops, gastronomy, the Bremen Casino, museums and workshops. Hütger designed the traditional red-brick architecture of the passage with Art Nouveau and Art Deco elements. The street's art collections include the museum in the Roselius House and the Paula Modesson Becker Museum and form the architectural and cultural highlight of the Böttcherstrasse. Now, please follow the markings through the underpass to the Weser Promenade by the river. Here you will see the ship jetty, which is known as the Martini landing stage. 9. Martini Church landing stage Location, Weser Schlachter Promenade below the Martini Church at the Martini Landing Stage kiosk. The Martini Landing Stage below the Martini Church is the landing stage of the passenger and cruise vessels on the Weser Schlachter Promenade. Get to know the maritime side of Bremen and embark on a Weser and harbour tour on historic or modern ships. You can also travel from here to Wegesack in the north. And it's only 60 kilometres downstream from here to Bremerhaven. Walk a few steps along the ship landing stage. The historic Evangelical St. Martini Church, which gave the landing stage its name, soars in the direction of the old town. It is the smallest, youngest and also most picturesque of the total of four old Bremen parish churches and was initially built as a three-aisled basilica around the year 1229. In the 14th century, it was extended into a hall church. Around two centuries later, a vicarage was built, the Neanderhaus. This was named after Joachim Neander, who lived in the house and wrote the world-famous church hymn, Praise to the Lord. Incidentally, the Neanderthal valley was named after him and this is where the remains of the earliest human species were later found. The late Gothic red brick building was badly damaged during the Second World War, but then rebuilt again in the post-war period. Relax a little by the Weser and enjoy the maritime flair in the traditional harbour and trading city of Bremen. We would also like to tell you a bit about the life around the river and the Weser Schlachterpromenade. 10. Schlachte, location Weser Schlachte Promenade And what actually is the Schlachte you may be asking? This is the name for the built-out bank of the river Weser that served as a landing place and which was constructed as far back as the year 1250 using driven-in wooden posts and wattle work. The name Schlachte itself is derived from the Low German word Schlagte which comes from the German word Schlagen, to hit. From around the year 1200 the Schlachte formed the main Bremen harbour. However, the siltation of the Weser and increasing loaded draft of the ships meant that as early as the 16th century the larger ships were no longer able to use the Schlachte. Then, in the year 1623, by order of the Bremen town council, architect Jakob Claussen finished off his work on one of the first artificial seaports in Germany, the harbour of Wegesack in the north of Bremen. The harbour's period of prosperity lasted until 1820, as due to the siltation it also became possible for larger ships to reach Wegesack. This made the founding of another harbour necessary. In the year 1827 the former mayor Johann Schmidt bought a piece of land in Lower Saxony on which to build a harbour at the mouth of the river Weser. This developed into a promising sea harbour, which is the Bremerhaven we know today, and which as a consolidation of the Lower Weser towns of Bremerhaven, Leher, Geestermunde, was temporarily called Wesermunde. By doing this, Schmidt enabled Bremen free access to the sea. Little roads used to lead from the old town to the Schlachte, the so-called Schlachtgates. The Schlachte was situated outside of the city walls and could only be reached through the Schlachtgates. The first, second and last gates are still marked on maps of the city today and have been retained as street names. The rebuilding and redesigning of the Schlachte promenade began on the banks of the river as part of the Expo 2000, with its motto, People, Nature, Technology. The people of Bremen rediscovered their city by the river. Today the Schlachte is the scene of pulsating city life. Whether watching the ships, strolling, laughing and enjoying, eating, drinking or celebrating parties, the Schlachte is simply a fun place to be. In fine weather, the terraces and gardens of a variety of different international restaurants and cafes are the ideal place to enjoy the views over the water and the historic and modern ships. At the Schlachte you can also admire the Kog ship, a replica of the historic Hanseatic vessel from the 13th and 14th centuries, or the three-masted frigate Admiral Nelson, a rustic pancake ship which is anchored right opposite the Martini church. Every Saturday in the summer season you can browse the stalls at the Cajun market along the Weser promenade for antique and useful items. In the advent period, the Schlachte magic market takes place against a historic, wintry and maritime backdrop. Now return to the markings on the ground, which run along the left side of the kiosk at the Martini landing stage at the underpass, and walk on a short distance along the left of the Weser in a south-easterly direction. You will pass by the theatre ship and along the arcades. International trade, harbours and shipping, and quality products from highly modern industries characterize the economic life in Bremen. Products from the Bremen grocery and luxury food product industry in particular, such as wine, beer, tea, chocolate, sausage and meat products, fish, cereals, or tropical fruits, for example, have made a name for themselves all around the world. And also, 50% of the coffee drunk in Germany passes through the harbour of Bremen. On the opposite side of the Weser, you can also see the building of the German lifeboat institution, which is based here in Bremen. This was founded in 1865, is financed by donations, and serves as an emergency headquarters for ships in distress at sea. Right next to it, also on the other side of the Weser, the building of the former waterworks. It looks like an upside-down chest of drawers, and was the first waterworks in Bremen. The historic water tower, which is over 100 years old, was earlier used to ensure the required water pressure in the city's water supply for the Bremen population. Continue following the markings on the pavement and leave the Weser behind. Cross through the underpass and go up the steps on the right. Now, walk on a short distance along the street. Turn left onto the street Hinter der Holzpforte, and immerse yourself in a world of a very special Bremen quarter. Now continue on to the small square in front of the Geschichtenhaus. Please press the pause button until you reach the square. 11. Schnoor Locations Wüsterstätte, Schnoor, Staffendam, corner of Kölpinkstraße and St. Johann Church Now you have arrived in Bremen's oldest preserved quarter, the Schnoor. In 1959, the Schnoor quarter was the first larger group of buildings in Germany to be recognized as a historic monument worth protecting. Join us on an idyllic journey back in time. You are now in the so-called Wüsterstätte, deserted place. This is a small, picturesque square reminiscent of the area that lay waste after the 17th century fire. On the left side, the Bremen Story House awaits its visitors. Costumed actors, dressed up as famous historic people from Bremen, will transport you and all of your senses back in time to Bremen's past. Further along the markings through the narrow alleys, you will now see the wedding house on the right-hand side at Schnoor No. 5. In the Middle Ages, couples who came to Bremen from the countryside were only allowed to marry in the city cathedral if they could prove they also had an abode there. This is where the wedding houses came in. The green half-timbered house is linked to this tradition and with a total of 43 square meters, is one of the smallest hotels in the world. If you'd like to test out this cozy wedding house for yourself, here's the good news. Nowadays, it can also be rented for two people. You can really relax in this marital abode over three small floors with its own whirlpool and four-poster bed below the roof. And these days, it's not only married couples who can enjoy it. Now, please cross the narrow alley and turn left into the Schnoor Street. Walk down the street along the markings until you come to a small square while continuing to listen. Have a look around you and soak up this picturesque setting. This street gave the smallest district of Bremen its name. But where does the name Schnoor come from, you may be asking. Look along the houses. Do you notice anything? Schnoor is Low German and means Schnur, the word for string, as here the small and lovingly restored houses from the 15th and 16th centuries are set close together like a string of pearls, which follow the course of the Balger, the former weiser distributory. The so-called Stavendamm on the small square was named after the Staven, the medieval public baths. In particular, the fountain, which you can see here, is reminiscent of this place of hygiene. However, the bath houses were not only used for bathing. It is said that men and women also used them as places of immoral activity. Now let's walk along the markings past the café until the next corner at the Gasthof. Stay standing on this corner for a moment. In the Kolpingstraße on the right-hand side, you will notice a very new orange-coloured building complex, the Burgitten Monastery with Guesthouse, Cloistered Area and Chapel. It was constructed between 2001 and 2002 as the first monastery building in Bremen since the Middle Ages and is made up of three connecting structures. Now walk left along the markings and down the street Lange Wierung. St. Johann Church In front of you now is the St. Johann Church, which was built by the Franciscans from the 14th century. It is the only Catholic church in Bremen's centre and also houses a private school. Nowadays, the majority of people in Bremen are Protestants. Only 12% are Catholic. Notice the simple design and the two corner towers. There is no grand church tower rising up into the sky. This is due to the fact that it was originally the Franciscan monastery which used the church. After being used for different purposes, it has served as a Catholic place of worship again since 1823. If you have the time to view the interior of the Gothic Hall Church, you will find a modern and simple design there too. Now it's time to leave the Schnoor Quarter. Follow the markings and use the steps. Or, if you prefer to avoid the steps, there is another alternative. All you have to do is walk back down the street and take two left turns. You will come to the tram junction Domsheide, a large crossroads. Please cross the road carefully and watch out for the trams and buses. Follow the markings on the ground in the direction of the cathedral and cross over the tram tracks again. When you have reached the cathedral, please look for a suitable place with a view of the statue on the front side. 12. St. Peter's Cathedral. Location, between the Cathedral and Town Hall. Direction of view, front side with the main entrance of the Cathedral. 1,200 years. This is the proud age of the magnificent St. Peter's Cathedral in Brayman, with its enthralling history, which you are standing in front of right now. Here, on the natural and highest point of a sand dune, around 10 metres above flood level, is where the Diocese of Brayman was founded. On the left side of the right Cathedral doorway, you will see the namesake, Patrus. The Holy Apostle, St. Patrus, is the patron of the Brayman Cathedral, and in the coat of arms of the old Brayman Diocese, holds a key, which represents the key to Heaven. The central figure is the founder, Emperor Charles the Great, who is holding a model of the Cathedral. Charles the Great consecrated the English missionary, Villahad, as a missionary bishop in the year 787. On the elevation of the dunes, on which Brayman originated, in 789, Bishop Villahad erected the prototype of the Cathedral, a small wooden church, which was, however, destroyed shortly afterwards. A few days later, Villahad died at the age of 44 years old. His mortal remains can be found as relics in the Cathedral. From 1072 to 1101, Archbishop Limar ultimately called for the construction of a Romanic Cathedral as a three-aisled pillar basilica with two crypts. The Romanesque-style West Crypt, which was still completed under his predecessor, Adalbert, in 1066, forms the oldest preserved part of the Cathedral today. There were regular additions, alterations, and renovations way into the 20th century. Now have a glance up at the mighty towers, which soar up to a height of 98 meters. The two-tower front was constructed in the 13th century and ensured that the Cathedral retained its early Gothic character. Sweden annexed the Archbishopric of Brayman after the Thirty Years' War, and so the Cathedral and the former Cathedral immunity became Swedish and subsequently Hanoverian. Only in 1803 did the Cathedral area fall back into the hands of the city of Brayman. For almost the entire 19th century the Cathedral went to rack and ruin with the half-collapsed South Tower. Only from 1888 onwards did an extensive, improving as well as historically distorting restoration begin, following the ideas of the Cathedral architect Max Salzmann. The Cathedral was barely affected by the bombing in the Second World War. In the 1970s, underfloor heating was to be installed, but during the building work numerous Archbishops' graves were exposed and significant findings were made. The Cathedral Museum in the Evangelical St. Peter's Cathedral shows the restored discoveries, like the altar furnishings, sacred scriptures, stone sculptures, textiles and mural paintings. In an adjacent building of the Brayman Cathedral is also the Lead Cellar, in which you can view eight mummified bodies and relics from the cloister of the Cathedral. You can reach the Lead Cellar via the so-called Bible Garden. Perhaps you have heard of the writer Freiherr von Knigge, best remembered for his book On Human Relations. His final resting place can be found inside the nave. And in case you want to give your ears a treat, every Thursday evening in the Cathedral superb concerts are offered, with free entry featuring organ, chamber or choir music by Johann Sebastian Bach for example. To the left of the doorway you cannot miss the equestrian monument of the former Reich Chancellor Otto von Bismarck. This is a piece of work by renowned sculptor Adolf von Hildebrand. By 1871, the year the Reich was founded, Bismarck had already been elected as an honorary citizen of Brayman, and is portrayed here in a riding pose. Among the German Bismarck monuments this is a big exception. Generally speaking, equestrian statues had always been reserved for monarchs. 13. Town Musicians Location, Between the Town Hall and the Church of Our Beloved Lady Another Bremen landmark and popular photo location for tourists, the Town Musicians of Bremen. This fairy tale has made Bremen famous all over the world. Spare a moment to look at the bronze sculpture by Professor Gerhard Marx on the west side of the Town Hall from the year 1951. Back then, Marx specifically chose this place. Is this what you imagined the Town Musicians to look like? Many tourists say, my, aren't they small? But size isn't everything. The traditional fairy tale of the Town Musicians was already well known in the 12th century. After all, the story written by the Brothers Grimm was entitled The Bremen Town Musicians. Close your eyes and think back to how the tale goes. We are going to Bremen. You can find something better than death everywhere, said the donkey to the rooster, and suggested traveling to Bremen to become Town Musicians. The four animals, donkey, dog, cat, and rooster, are too old to be useful to their owners and fear being killed. The animals are able to escape this grisly fate and bump into each other by chance. The donkey suggests becoming Town Musicians in Bremen. So, the animals set off on their journey to Bremen together. It is not possible, however, to reach the city in the same day, so they have to spend the night in the woods. There, the four journeymen come across a robber's house where they scare and drive away the robbers with trickery and loud bellowing. As the Bremen Town Musicians like the house so much, they don't want to leave, so that is where they happily spend the rest of their days. In the 13th century, Bremen, as an aspiring trading town, allowed merchants to come to the city, and with them also came jugglers and musicians. The city council allowed the Town Musicians to play music at festivals and from the top of the tower, and these Town Musicians always picked up other traveling musicians on their way, just like in the fairy tale. But what is actually behind the vibrant story of the four animals? For us, the moral of the fairy tale is that only by acting together can the weak prevail over the strong. Strength comes in numbers. Now it's your turn. It's not only Bremen's residents who are allowed to make a wish by touching both forelegs of the donkey with both hands, but please don't touch it with one hand, otherwise one donkey will say to another, good day, as one says in Bremen. You can make one wish that will then come true. That's a promise. But we can't actually predict when this will happen. Of course, you cannot tell anyone what you have wished for. Stroking the donkey's nose will also bring you good luck. This monument of the Bremen Town Musicians by Gerhard Marx is the most renowned of all interpretations. Gerhard Marx was one of the most important German sculptors of the 20th century. When he was still alive in 1971, Bremen devoted a museum to Marx, the Gerhard Marx House, which accommodates the Gerhard Marx Foundation. Incidentally, there are figures of the town musicians everywhere in Bremen. Just have a look around to see how many you can discover. We have now reached the end of our audio guide tour on the historic route through Bremen's old town. Thank you very much for your interest. We hope you enjoy the rest of your stay in our city, for there is so much more to discover. From the Weser Schlachter Promenade to the fascination space travel with the Columbus Space Module of the International Space Station, down to highly enjoyable events like the Bremen Free Market, the Christmas Market, or Schlachter Magic. Bremen is well worth a visit. Perhaps you would also like to be personally shown around the city by a tour guide. Then we recommend our two-hour sightseeing tour through the historic city center, which we offer every day at 2 p.m. Maybe a sightseeing tour, our town hall tour, a guided tour of the council cellar of the town hall, or the space travel tour might also be of interest to you. We will be happy to inform you at the Tourist Information Center. Please return your audio guide to the Tourist Information Center on Obernstrasse as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention, and we would be grateful for your comments.
Werder Bremen - the Pride of the City
Home
Living
Sports
Werder Bremen
Werder Bremen - the Pride of the City
Here is the most important information about our Green-White Club and the WESERSTADION.
This historic football club based on the banks of the Weser river is as much a symbol of Bremen as the Town Musicians, the Roland statue and the town hall. On both the domestic and European stage the green and whites have met with a great deal of success over the decades, winning four league championships, six DFB cups and the 1992 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup. What's more, Werder Bremen are ranked second in the all-time Bundesliga table. Many great players have worn the famous shirt with the diamond W logo. And although year after year hundreds and thousands of fans flock to the stadium to cheer on their team, Werder Bremen still feels like a family club.
WESERSTADION
'Green and white forever' – the home of Werder Bremen!
Werder Bremen Fan Shop
You'll find the complete range of Werder Bremen memorabilia at the club's fantastic fan shop.
www.werder.de/en
Official website of Werder Bremen
Directions to the Werder Match
Book now
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. Club Museum
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. Club Museum
Guided Tour for Groups
This might also interest you
Wuseum
Swimming in Bremen
Flowering Season in Rhododendron Park
Top Events in Bremen
Flowering Season in Rhododendron Park
Flowering Season in Rhododendron Park
Over 3000 varieties of more than 600 rhododendron.
Where & When
April to June
Opening hours
7 am until sunset
Website
Rhododendron Park
Between the months of April and June, over 3,000 varieties of more than 600 rhododendron and azalea species transform the 46 hectares of the Rhododendron Park into a riot of colour. This tremendous collection of plants, unparalleled on the European mainland, has always been a magnet for visitors young and old. The months of May and June are traditionally considered to be the main flowering period for the many varieties of rhododendron.
The less hardy varieties of this colourful, woody shrub can already be in full bloom in February if kept in frost-free greenhouses. The botanika display greenhouses in Bremen's Rhododendron Park are home to a collection of non-hardy rhododendron that is unrivalled in central Europe. The majority of the plants that can be seen here are in full bloom in the months of March and April. Visitors can immerse themselves in the nature of the Himalayas, Borneo and Japan and in the culture of Asia. Covering an area of 800m², the interactive "Discovery centre" with its spectacular multimedia displays provides a hands-on experience with lots of fun.
You might also be interested in...
Rhododendronpark
Top Events in Bremen
Holiday Inn Express Bremen Airport
Cycling: The River Weser Round Tour
Cycling: The River Weser Round Tour
This tour shows you the many colourful sides of Bremen.
A football stadium in the middle of the city. A ferry trip over to a sandy beach, that feels like a two-minute holiday. A green dyke as a place where people meet for leisure but which is actually the result of devastating floods, and last but not least: a huge docklands area where art and coffee, hard work and riverside living, the chic and the shabby exist side by side – this tour shows you the many colourful sides of Bremen. One element is common to all: the River Weser, linking Bremen directly to the North Sea and the rest of the world.
Here you can find the complete Route
Discover the sights of the Weser round tour
Explore the River Weser round tour
Let our free smartphone app be your guide!
Book now
River Weser and Harbour Cruise
River Weser and Harbour Cruise
Have a look at maritime Bremen!
You might also be interested in...
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Must-See Sights in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Must-See Sights in Bremen
You' re on the lookout for the top sights in Bremen? Well, you've come to the right place! We'll tell you which spots should definitely be on your bucket list.
Bremen offers you many sights – the Town Musicians and the UNESCO World Heritage town hall are certainly among the most popular. But did you know that Bremen is also a city of science? You can find out how astronauts live in the International Space Station or sit and tremble on the earthquake sofa at Universum Bremen. Or perhaps you would like to venture into the world of shipbuilding or explore the pretty narrow lanes of the Schnoor quarter? We have put together a list of eleven highlights that are not to be missed while visiting Bremen.
The Bremen Town Musicians
Donkey, dog, cat and rooster belong to Bremen like the Weser. And they literally accompany you wherever you go in the historical city centre. The most famous figure of the
Bremen Town Musicians
- a bronze statue by Gerhard Marcks - can be found on the west side of the
town hall
. It's easy to spot the numerous visitors waiting in line to take hold of the donkey's front legs. After all, that's supposed to bring good luck! A little further on, directly in front of the
Bremen Parliament
, the voices of the four animals resound from the ground at the '
Bremer Loch'
for a good cause. And at the Sieben-Faulen-Brunnen in
Böttcherstraße
you will discover one of many other editions of the famous quartet scattered throughout the city.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Bremen's pride and joy is the ensemble of the
town hall and Roland statue
, which UNESCO has included on its World Heritage List in 2014. The duo is beautifully presented on the north-east side of Bremen's
market square
and stands for democracy and freedom in a unique way. Since it was built in 1405, the town hall has been the seat of municipal self-government and the state government, while Roland, installed in 1404, has always symbolised the rights and privileges of the Hanseatic city. It is well worth a visit! Roland will gladly hold still for a photo with you and the town hall is not only an absolute eye-catcher from the outside. The doors of the magnificent building are also open to you on interesting
guided tours
or during a visit to the unique
Ratskeller
.
Book now
Town Hall: Guided Tour
Town Hall: Guided Tour
Discover the historic building!
The Schnoor
The old town quarter of
Schnoor
is a beautiful network of streets that is demonstrably one of the
'coolest in the world'
. The old town quarter owes its name "Schnoor" to the Low German word for "string", and there's no better way to describe this lovingly restored district: Here, small, colourful houses and shops line up like pearls on a string, along alleys so narrow that you can touch both sides with outstretched arms. When visiting Bremen, a stroll through the Schnoor is a must! Besides wonderful souvenirs, culture and culinary highlights, you'll find fantastic motifs for taking photos.
Bötcherstraße
Anyone who wants to discover Bremen should not skip the unique
Böttcherstraße
in the heart of the city. Built in the early 20th century by Ludwig Roselius, this alley is a true work of art. The street not only impresses with its unique symbiosis of traditional and expressionist brick architecture. It also has interesting
museums
and numerous opportunities to feast and browse. With the Haus des Glockenspiels (House of Chimes) and the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
(Candy store), two very special highlights of the Hanseatic city await you in Böttcherstraße.
Kunsthalle
Experience the pure pleasure of art at the
Kunsthalle Bremen
art gallery. Its collection spans from the 14th century to the present: European painting from the Middle Ages to the present day, sculptures from the 16th to the 21st century and media art, including works by Masolino and Dürer, Monet, van Gogh, Beckmann, Cage and Paik. The copperplate engraving cabinet is actually one of the most important of its kind. In addition, the Kunsthalle impresses again and again with exciting special exhibitions, with which the tradition-rich but no less contemporary house presents itself again and again in a new and varied way.
The Schlachte Embankment
Dolce Vita in the far north? Definitely! The sweet life awaits you at
Schlachte
- Bremen's gastronomic hotspot and promenade mile on the Weser. The former waterfront harbour invites you to stroll along the Weser, while you enjoy the numerous local beer gardens and restaurants. In summer, there is always an antique and flea market on the Tiefer on Saturdays. And during Advent, the
"Schlachte-Zauber"
Christmas market gets you in a festive mood with its very special ambience.
Book now
Boat Tour
Boat Tour
A trip to the harbour along the Schlachte Embankment
The Maritime Meile in Vegesack
If you love to be near the water, you shouldn't miss the
Maritime Meile
in Bremen-Vegesack, where Germany's first artificial harbour was built 400 years ago. From here you can enjoy a fantastic view over the Weser directly onto two large shipyards - with a little luck you might even catch a glimpse of one of the million-dollar yachts that are built here. At the Utkiek, right next to the harbour, various restaurants and pubs invite you to enjoy yourself. And further along the Weser, a botanical must-see in Bremen awaits you in the Stadtgarten Vegesack.
Stadtgarten Vegesack
Vegesack
The Überseestadt
Where ships once sailed and general cargo was loaded, the
Überseestadt
district now enriches Bremen's image. After the steady decline of the maritime industry, a completely new, vibrant and innovative quarter has been emerging here for several years, and you should definitely pay it a visit. Disused, huge warehouses made of red brick stand in exciting contrast to the most modern architecture. This interesting mix provides a varied location for numerous cafés, restaurants and businesses. The University of the Arts has found creative space in Speicher XI for its Department of Liberal Arts and Design. The Hafenmuseum (harbour museum) and the Speicherbühne (warehouse stage) also use the large space. The GOP Varieté Theatre, on the other hand, resides in one of the new buildings worth seeing directly on the Weser.
Überseestadt & Europahafen
Book now
Town Musicians Express
Town Musicians Express
Drive along the Weser to Überseestadt.
Worlds of Knowledge
"Explain it to me and I will forget. Show me and I will remember. Let me do it myself and I will understand." In keeping with this motto of Confucius, knowledge and science are brought to life in Bremen's so-called
Wissenswelten
(worlds of knowledge) and presented in a vivid and creative way. In
Universum Bremen
you can stop real lightning, overcome gravity or outwit your own senses. At the ethnological museum
Übersee-Museum
you can travel from Oceania to Africa and America. And in the
botanika
, nature awaits you in the middle of the city. Embedded in the surroundings of the famous
Rhododendronpark
, you can go on vivid journeys through the world of plants and discover fascinating topics such as biodiversity or plant ecology.
Space Tour at Airbus
Talking about innovations: As an important space centre, Bremen is reaching for the stars. The technicians at
Airbus
build space transporters and rocket parts. You can look over their shoulders and also learn how astronauts live on the International Space Station, which is monitored by Airbus.
Werder Bremen
Just like the Town Musicians, the football players of
SV Werder Bremen
are a great team. You can expect some first-class entertainment at the four-time German fooitball champions and six-time winner of the DFB Cup - regardless of whether you're rooting for Werder or prefer to cheer for another club, you'll have fun at the Weser Stadion. If you've always wanted to take a look behind the scenes of the famous stadium on the banks of the Weser, you can do so on a guided tour of the stadium. And a visit to the Werder mueum Wuseum is also worthwhile for football fans.
WESERSTADION
'Green and white forever' – the home of Werder Bremen!
Wuseum
You can find the Must-See attractions here:
The Bremen Town Musicians
Schoppensteel 1, 28195 Bremen
The town hall and Roland Statue
Am Markt 21, 28195 Bremen
The Schnoor quarter
Stavendamm 16, 28195 Bremen
Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße, 28195 Bremen
The Kunsthalle art gallery
Am Wall 207
The Schlachte Embankment
Schlachte, 28195 Bremen
The Maritime Mile in Vegesack
Vegesacker Weserpromenade 3-1, 28757 Bremen
The Überseestadt district
Überseepromenade, 28217 Bremen
Knowledge Worlds
Wiener Straße 1A
Space Tour
Airbus-Allee 1
Werder Bremen
Franz-Böhmert-Str.1
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
Book now
City Break Bremen
City Break Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Out and about in Bremen
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
360 Degree Tour
Visit the Böttcherstraße
Coffee and cake – how to find the right café
Home
Living
Cafés in Bremen
Cafés in Bremen
Selected "Kaffeesieren" tips
A slice of cake and a reviving cup of coffee? Or would you rather have tea? Bremen has a multitude of wonderful places in which you can "Kaffeesieren", which
means "enjoying a cup of coffee"
in Bremen.
Here are just a few of them we're sure you'll enjoy.
Family-friendly cafés
Vegan Cafés
You might also be interested in...
Bremen cuisine
Bremen specialities, from substantial to sweet
Shopping
Bar Meets Culture
Food and Drink - Culinary Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Kale with pinkel, labskaus and knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities do sound a bit like something you'd get used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea and connections to rural life forms the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. But the city's long coffee and brewing traditions also leave their mark, as do the regional delicacies cabbage, asparagus and strawberries. It's also impossible to imagine the culinary map of Bremen without the rollo, which was invented in Bremen, and the many sweets made here. Let Bremen melt in your mouth!
But Bremen is not only at the forefront when it comes to production, but also and especially when it comes to savouring. A large number of restaurants, pubs, cafés and manufactories invite you to savour their specialities. Whether it's cabbage and spelt, Labskaus or Knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities take a little getting used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea, the tradition of trade and links to rural life form the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. Whether it's a beer seminar or coffee tasting, a city tour with appetisers or making your own sweets - in Bremen there are plenty of opportunities to actively experience the culinary side of the city.
Schlachte Embankment
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
The delicious foundation of Bremen's town hall
Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. Not only can typical Bremen dishes be savoured here, but this is also where the cellar master poured the first fine wines back in 1409. Today, guests can choose between 650 different, illustrious varieties on over 70 pages of the wine list - praised by connoisseurs as a veritable wine encyclopaedia.
Ratskeller Bremen
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you under the town hall.
Brewing tradition
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 11th century. According to "Markenmonitor Bier", the Beck & Co brewery is the most popular and most popular beer brand in Germany. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing is the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen. A visit to the brewery's former advertising icon, the three-master "Alexander von Humboldt", is a great addition to the brewery tour. Green sails and Joe Cocker's striking "Sail Away" - who doesn't recognise this traditional barque with its eye-catching appearance? She has now found her home harbour at Bremen's Martinianleger. But Beck's is by no means the only beer brewed in Bremen. Craft beers are currently on everyone's lips in the truest sense of the word.
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Alexander von Humboldt
Dining on the world-famous three-master.
Coffee Culture
Who would have thought it: every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen, and almost every second imported bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. So it's no wonder that coffee culture is cultivated in many places in the Weser city and the city's long coffee history is continued on a daily basis. We Bremen residents even have our own word for cultivated coffee enjoyment: kaffeesieren. And in traditional roasting houses such as Lloyd Caffee and Kaffeerösterei August Münchhausen, you can take a look behind the scenes on informative guided tours, gain an insight into the art of roasting and taste full-bodied coffees. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Coffee Culture
Here you can get fresh beans, become a barista or enjoy freshly brewed delicacies.
Coffee Roasteries
Take a look behind the scenes
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Museums and Science
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Find out which museums, exhibitions and places of experience are waiting for you in Bremen and where you can find them.
Places of Experience and Knowledge
Art & Design
Bremen Regional Studies, Art and Cultural History
Remembrance and Documentation
Technology, Mobility, Profession and Craft
Here you'll find all museums and places of knowledge in Bremen
Wuseum
Franz-Böhmert-Straße 1
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
Am Wall 209
Weserburg
Universum® Science Center Bremen
Wiener Straße 1A
Tischlereimuseum Bremen
Köpkenstraße 18/20
Städtische Galerie im Buntentor
Buntentorsteinweg 112
Schulmuseum Bremen
Auf der Hohwisch 61-63
Overbeck- Museum
Alte Hafenstraße 30
Olbers-Planetarium
Werderstraße 73
Museum Schloß Schönebeck
Im Dorfe 3-5
Museen Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße 6-10
Krankenhaus Museum
Züricher Straße 40
Köksch un Qualm
Stader Landstraße 46
Haus der Wissenschaft
Sandstraße 4-5
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Am Wall 208
GAK
Teerhof 21
Dom-Museum Bremen im St.Petri-Dom
Sandstraße 10-12
Das Depot - Straßenbahnmuseum
Schloßparkstraße 45
Bremer Rundfunkmuseum
Findorffstraße 22-24
Altes Pumpwerk
Salzburger Straße 12
Focke Museum
Schwachhauser Heerstraße 240
Kunsthalle Bremen
Speicher XI, Hafenmuseum, Überseestadt
botanika
Deliusweg 40
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Wüstestätte 10
Übersee-Museum
Bahnhofsplatz 13
Denkort Bunker Valentin
Rekumer Siel
You might also be interested in...
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
Book now
Tours and Tickets
Tours and Tickets
for various museums and worlds of knowledge as well as suitable package tours
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Moving to Bremen
Home
Living
Residing
Moving to Bremen
Moving to Bremen
You’re getting set to make a move to - or perhaps within - Bremen? We’ll help you to make it as pleasant and easy as possible. Whether you’re new to Bremen or been here a dog’s age, you’ll find all the information and links you need for moving to Bremen here.
New in Bremen?
Are you new in Bremen? Find out which neighbourhood is best for you! Whether a quiet, countrified setting on the outskirts, or an area with nightlife – all
neighbourhoods of Bremen
have a special charm of their own.
Perhaps you’d also like to
check out a short description of
the city and its people
learn more about Bremen’s
cultural landscape
explore Bremen’s
parks and green spaces
Find your Dream Flat!
Whether you're moving to Bremen or have been here for a while, the Hanseatic city offers comparatively low rents compared to other major German cities. Find out more about this in the
current rent index
.
The Moving Day draws nearer . . .
You’ve found a new place and moving day is fast approaching? Then you can look for moving boxes on the
Schwarzes Brett
. And have you thought about the following?
Change of address
application
Cancellation of electric, gas and water services
Change or cancellation of telephone and internet connection
Change or cancellation of
broadcasting licence fee
Opening a bank account
Registering change of address with your insurances
Change or cancellation of subscriptions
An appointment for
bulky trash removal
An appointment with the police department for a special
moving-day parking permit
, to reserve space on the street for your removal vehicles
Home at Last!
The move is behind you and now you’re finally in your new home. Allow us to congratulate you on your new place! Sit back and relax – we’ve put together the addresses for the various institutions you might need to contact.
New residence registration
or registration of
change-of-address
Motor vehicle
registration
Finding a
Kindergarten
or
school
for your child
Child allowance benefits (Kindergeld)
application
Bafög
(student aid) application and information about Bremen’s higher education institutions
A change of address registration with the revenue office (
Finanzamt
)
You might also be interested in...
Activities
We've put together a number of suggestions on how to spend your day.
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Districts of Bremen
Home
Living
Residing
Districts
Districts of Bremen
Welcome to the different and varied districts of Bremen.
Bremen's 23 districts are as exciting as they are diverse. Whether located on the left or right of the Weser, in the middle of the city or in the rural outskirts - the individual districts could hardly be more different. On this page you will find key information and a few visual impressions. Get to know the charming characteristics and differences of Bremen's neighborhoods better!
Districts in the West of Bremen
Situated on the right side of the Weser River, the districts of Häfen, Mitte, Blockland, Findorff, Gröpelingen and Walle stretch out in Bremen's west. Especially the historic core with its many sights attracts Bremen citizens and visitors again and again to the old town to marvel and dream. But also Findorff and the Blockland offer you a spot of nature in the middle of the city to walk and breathe. In Gröpelingen and Walle you can experience urban flair close to the city and a cosmopolitan Bremen.
Districts in the East of Bremen
The east of Bremen also has a lot to offer. While in the districts of Horn-Lehe and Schwachhausen you are close to the university, Osterholz and Vahr offer you the opportunity to live cheaply. Those who like to spend the night will find what they are looking for in the Östliche Vorstadt. In just a few minutes' walk you will find yourself in the middle of the turbulent bar scene. In the districts of Borgfeld and Hemelingen, on the other hand, you can experience rural life and the closeness to nature up close.
Districts in the South of Bremen
The southern district of our Hanseatic city stretches to the left of the Weser River. Especially in the districts of Strom, Seehausen and Obervieland, idyllic landscapes and a relaxed village atmosphere await you. Here you can escape the hustle and bustle of the big city. If you prefer a more urban and central location, Neustadt or Woltmershausen are the right places to go. In a few minutes you can reach harbors and the water, but at the same time you have many pubs and stores right around the corner.
Districts in the North of Bremen
Downstream, where the Lesum flows into the Weser, the north of Bremen begins. Here is also the northernmost district of Bremen: Blumenthal. At the same time, it is also the only one that extends on both sides of the Weser. But also the other two districts Burglesum and Vegesack can be seen. They are characterized above all by a long port tradition and idyllic nature. It is not for nothing that Burglesum is also described as "The front garden of Bremen".
History of the city districts
Before the Bremen Senate passed an ordinance in February 1951, our Hanseatic city consisted of a total of five city districts. These were subdivided by the resolution into today's city districts. The individual districts of Seehausen, Strom, Borgfeld, Oberneuland and Blockland, which do not belong to a separate city district, were added. Some of the districts actually have a long history.
You might also be interested in...
Cafés with Wi-Fi
Cafés where you can surf for free while you sip your coffee
Parks and Recreation
City Map
Shopping
This is Bremen
Top Events in Bremen
Bremen for Every Occasion
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Bremen for Every Occasion
No matter how you want to spend your vacation, we have the right ideas for you.
You are planning your next vacation to Bremen and are looking for things to do? We have gathered a list of tips according to different themes and interests. Get to know Bremen from its culinary, adventurous, cultural, or relaxed side and tailor your vacation to your needs and preferences!
Bremen for Groups
Whether it is a day trip, guided tour, or weekend excursion - Bremen is simply ideal for every type of group, no matter if large or small. Discover guided tours, accommodations, and package deals from the
Bremen Tourist Office
.
Group Offers
Fun Weekend Break in Bremen
Bremen for Bicycle Travellers
We have collected various tips and exciting offers for you with respect to the topic
cycling in Bremen
. Time to get on your bicycle and ready, set, go!
Bremen for Lovers
Enjoy romantic days with your partner in crime in Bremen and explore the city together. Check out our ideas for special dates and romantic activities.
Recommendations for Romantic Activities in the Hanseatic City of Bremen
Bremen for Budget Travellers
A city trip does not always have to be expensive. With our recommendations for smart spenders, you can find out where leisure activities in Bremen do not cost much or are even completely free of charge.
Bremen for Business Travellers
Are you visiting the Hanseatic city on business and interested in seeing more than just the inside of a conference hotel or exhibition centre? We want to show you what this beautiful city by the river has to offer and how to make the most of your business trip!
Bremen for Gourmet Fans
Attention food-lovers: Bremen makes your culinary heartbeat faster. Get to know the city from its "delicious" side by spoiling yourself with Bremen's delicacies.
Bremen for Culture Fans
Culturally, Bremen has a lot to offer. We have the right tips for culture lovers: anything from city culture, open studios, or the top events of the year.
Top Events in Bremen
Bremen for Culture Enthusiasts
Bremen for Families
Let's go to Bremen - just like the town musicians once intended. Take your kids along and experience colourful, diverse, and unforgettable family days.
Family Holidays in Bremen
Bremen for Adventure Seekers
In case you prefer to be active and are looking for an adventure, we also have various recommendations for you. Hiking, sailing, flying, or diving – it is all possible in Bremen and the surrounding area.
You might also be interested in...
Bremen at Second Glance
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Space Tour at Airbus
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Space Tour at Airbus
Space Tour at Airbus
How do people live, sleep, and carry out research in zero gravity? You'll find all the amazing answers at Airbus.
Bremen – Aerospace City
Bremen has been making its mark on the world of science for more than 100 years and can justifiably call itself a city of aerospace expertise. From shipbuilding and aircraft construction to space labs and rocket stages, Bremen has cemented its reputation as a home of high-tech industry.
The History of Airbus
The space age began in Bremen in 1961: It was the traditional North German companies Focke-Wulf, Hamburger Flugzeugbau and Weser Flugzeugbau that founded the 'Entwicklungsring Nord', which quickly made a name for itself in the international space industry as ERNO. Today,
Airbus
in Bremen, the successor company to ERNO, is a world-leading industrial space center for space transportation, manned space flight and space robotics. Airbus and the engineering skills at the Bremen site make major European space programs possible in the first place: projects such as the International Space Station ISS, the space laboratories Spacelab and Columbus, the automatic supply vehicle ATV, the European launch vehicle Ariane and the exploration missions to the moon and Mars are inseparably linked to the space expertise of the Airbus site in Bremen. At Airbus, space enthusiasts gain an insight into research and development in space.
Book now
Tour for Groups
Tour for Groups
You might also be interested in...
Mercedes-Benz
Look Behind the Scenes
Plant Tours and Factory Visits in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Plant Tours and Factory Visits in Bremen
Take a look behind the scenes of different factories and large companies.
Bremen is a brand capital – home to such big names as Beck's, Mercedes-Benz and Airbus. But Bremen also features a number of smaller manufacturers producing a variety of artisan goods.
Take a look behind the scenes. On various factory tours we will open the doors to production areas and give you a glimpse of our treasures. Find out how beer is brewed, how high-end cars are built and how astronauts live in space. On the tours of the smaller producers you can see how, aromatic coffee and fine brandies are made.
International Brands
Mercedes-Benz
Airbus
Liquid Pleasures
Book now
'Aerospace Bremen' guided tour
'Aerospace Bremen' guided tour
Book now
Guided tour of the Ratskeller
Guided tour of the Ratskeller
Bremen Experts
For tourist questions and bookings, the professionals of the official tourism organization can help you via the service telephone 0421-3080010 or in the tourist information.
Sweet delicacies
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur (Candy Store)
Manke & Coldewey Lebkuchen Manufaktur
Guided Tours & Trips
Enjoy an entertaining and informative tour accompanied by a guide.
Be a Bremer Kneipenprofi (Bremen Bar Expert): Discover the Variety of Drinks on Offer in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Be a Bremer Kneipenprofi (Bremen Bar Expert): Discover the Variety of Drinks on Offer in Bremen
Be a Bremer Kneipenprofi (Bremen Bar Expert): Discover the Variety of Drinks on Offer in Bremen
Pick up your beer mat from participating bars and set off on your very own pub crawl. No matter whether you prefer long drinks or soft drinks, the main thing is to have a real Bremen experience.
What is a “Bremer Kneipenprofi”?
Your pleasure experience in Bremen
Bremen is a city of pleasure with a large selection of gastronomy, typical regional specialties, manufactories and other
culinary highlights
. The pub and bar scene also has a lot to offer and that's exactly what you should experience with the “Bremer Kneipenprofi”.
The special thing about this individual pub crawl is that you will not only get to know the Bremen pub scene, but also drinks from Bremen. We have put together a colourful mix of pubs - sometimes loud, sometimes quiet, sometimes cult, sometimes modern, but always typically Bremen. Try traditional or new Bremen beers, cocktails with Korn, Gin or Vodka from Bremen distilleries, homemade lemonades or special shots in the pubs. Here you can not only experience Bremen's variety of pleasures, but also taste it!
Please note: You'll also get a stamp for non-alcoholic drinks in the bars!
How does the Bremer Kneipenprofi experience work?
1. Ask for the
"Bremer Kneipenprofi Beer Mat"
in participating bars and Bremen shops.
2. Find one (or more) of Bremen's typical drinks on the drinks menu or on the picture below.
Only Bremen beverages or originals count!
3. When you pay, your waiter will stamp the beer mat.
4. Look for the next bar and take your beer mat with you.
5. Take a photo for Instagram with the hashtag
#BremerKneipenProfi
6. Keep your stamped beer mat and collect your discount or surprise gift. You'll find a list of all the participating businesses below, under "The benefits of being a Bremer Kneipenprofi". As a true Bremen Bar Expert, you'll need to have visited at least four bars. You can only get your beer mat stamped once in each bar.
7. Take your beer mat home as a souvenir. On it, write down when you became a Bremen Bar Expert, and who was with you.
Selected Bremen pubs and bars
You're sure to find your perfect bar and your perfect drinks here. If you start feeling peckish during your pub crawl, or if you need a pick-me-up afterwards, we heartily recommend a rollo.
Find your pub in Bremen
Fehrfeld
Cosy, iconic foosball pub
Fehrfeld 58/59, 28203 Bremen
Rock & Wurst
Grill, Bar, R'N'R
Am Dobben 35, 28203 Bremen
Litfass
Institution, concerts, bar
Ostertorsteinweg 22, 28203 Bremen
Wohnzimmer
70s sofa bar, cocktails, terrace
Ostertorsteinweg 99, 28203 Bremen
Eisen
Werder, St. Pauli, punkrock
Sielwall 9, 28203 Bremen
Heldenbar
Craftbeer, cocktails, cinema
Ostertorsteinweg 105, 28203 Bremen
Heartbreak Hotel
Narrow, small, different
Fehrfeld 30, 28203 Bremen
Schüttinger
Rustic pub brewery
Hinter dem Schütting 12-13, 28195 Bremen
Maerz
Pub, cocktails and the second nicest terrace in the Viertel
Sielwall 29, 28203 Bremen
Bermuda
Cosy atmosphere, good music, top location
Fehrfeld 34, 28203 Bremen
ChinChilla
Chin-Chin & Chill, varied, smokers' bar
Sielwall 4, 28203 Bremen
Feldschlößchen Bar
Hire bar, cocktail courses, gin tastings
Feldstraße 7, 28203 Bremen
Highlight drinks
Here you will find a few self-selected highlight drinks for a well-rounded evening in Bremen. Real specialities from Bremen producers and "pub keepers" that you will probably only find here.
The benefits of being a Bremer Kneipenprofi
We hope you had an entertaining evening and an enjoyable Bremen experience. Did you find some of the drinks truly memorable? Would you like to take a couple of culinary reminders of your visit home with you? Bring in your beer mat, with at least 4 stamps on it, to claim your discount or a sweet little surprise. You can only get your beer mat stamped once in each bar. Take advantage of these offers as a "reward" for becoming a new Bar Expert:
You might also be interested in...
Nightlife in Bremen
Iconic Pubs
The right pub for every taste!
Culinary Bremen
Liquid Pleasures
Bremen has something for every connoisseur.
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Bremen Tourism – Newsletter
Home
Tourism
Service
Newsletter
Bremen Tourism – Newsletter
Subscribe to the Newsletter and you'll always have the information at your fingertips!
Whether you're a dyed in the wool Bremen fan, an absolute beginner or simply looking for inspiration for your next trip, the Newsletter of the department Bremen Tourism is exactly the right thing for you. There's always something going on in Bremen! Get the latest updates and insider tips about the city on the Weser, and find out about upcoming events.
Savour the Anticipation
Bremen has its own special charm in
every season
. It’s not just Bremen’s
impressive sights
that attract visitors. With its
maritime charm
,
culinary pleasures
and annual cultural
highlight events
, Bremen is always worth a visit. So savour the anticipation and start planning your next trip to the Hanseatic city now. The Newsletter gives you all the information you need to get the very best from your visit to Bremen!
You might also be interested in...
Must-See Attractions
Gift Vouchers to Discover Bremen
The perfect gift for any occasion
24 Hours in Bremen
Ships on the Weser in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Ships on the Weser in Bremen
Ships on the Weser in Bremen
Flowing through the heart of Bremen is the Weser river: an old trading route that was the driving force behind the city's emergence as a proud Hanseatic centre. Bremen's seafaring traditions are still alive and well today and have a big part to play in its unique appeal. Ship ahoy!
Moored on both banks of the Weser river numerous ships and smaller boats display the seafaring traditions of Bremen. They are part of the unique maritime flair of the city. Enjoy a cruise through the harbour or book a boat trip to Bremerhaven, marvel at world famous sailing vessels, feast on board a maritime restaurant or spend a night in a cozy cabin.
Alexander von Humboldt
This historical three-masted ship, which gained international recognition through commercials for Beck's beer, was being rebuilt into a floating restaurant and hotel. It anchors permanently at the Schlachte in Bremen.
The Alexander von Humboldt
served as a sail training ship until it was brought out of service in 2011. Its new owner had refurbished it completely and converted it into a hotel and restaurant business, but kept its distinctive green sails. Now, the barque, which was built in 1906, offers a unique accommodation for forty people, mainly in twin rooms but also in larger family rooms. The Alexander von Humboldt offers a different menu every month with a selection of fresh, regional and seasonal dishes. These also refer to the ship and its voyages. A selection of wines and other drinks are available to complement the food. The ship can accommodate small private parties and larger functions for up to 120 guests.
Alexander von Humboldt an der Schlachte
Dauerwelle
The
Dauerwelle
was purchased by the University of the Arts in 2020 and lovingly refurbished at the Kötter shipyard and the Lankenauer Höft. In May 2022, the converted passenger ship celebrated its christening and since then has been available for exhibitions, projects and events. The perm is intended to serve as a special meeting place for science, culture and society.
Hotelschiff Perle
Centrally located on the Schlachte promenade, the former
Hotelschiff Perle
is available to its guests as a special hotel. Two comfortable cabins with sun terraces and fully equipped bathrooms offer the right ambience for relaxing hours during a visit to Bremen. From here you can reach the city centre and numerous sights in just a few minutes' walk, while the many inviting restaurants and bars of the Schlachte are waiting right outside your door.
MS Senator
Until 2004, the Bremen Senate received state guests and business delegations on the
MS Senator
to present Bremen and especially the Bremen ports to them from the water. After the Senate decommissioned the ship, an association of Bremen merchants took over the launch in order to make it accessible to Bremen's citizens and the business community at Schlachte jetty 6. Since then, companies and private individuals have been able to charter the MS Senator for celebrations and parties for up to 37 people.
MS Friedrich
The
MS Friedrich
is the oldest ship still in service on the Weser. Built in Hamburg in 1880, the former steamship was sold to Bremen as early as 1918, where it was initially used as a working ferry. In 1925, the Friedrich was not only given her current name, she also began operating as the "Great Harbour Tour", taking her passengers through Bremen's free ports. Numerous different areas of operation followed until the MS Friedrich was taken over by an association whose mission was to preserve it. Renovated, the ship is now moored at the Schlachte, undertakes regular club trips and is available to the public for cultural events.
Nedeva
Henry Ford, Barbara Hutton or J.P. Morgan - in the 1930s, the
Nedeva
was a popular meeting place for New York's high society and stood more than ever for glamour and the spirit of optimism after the Great Depression of 1929. The motor yacht, built by the New York Yacht Launch and Engine Company, belonged to the investment banker Edward Townsend Stotesbury, who regularly invited the celebrities of his time to parties and tours. Today, the Nedeva is once again an event location and can be booked for celebrations of all kinds.
MS Oceana
Built in 1937 at the Atlas works, the passenger ship
MS Oceana
has always been at home on the Weser. The ship, which is licensed for a maximum of 700 people, awaits its passengers at the Martinianleger for regular scheduled trips. From Martinianleger via Pier 2, Mittelsbühren, Vegesack, Blumenthal, Farge, Brake, Nordenham Unionpapier to Bremerhaven Seebäderkaje and back - on the MS Oceana you can explore the varied landscape from Bremen to Bremerhaven from the water from May to September. At the many stops, you have the opportunity to get off the ship and discover what's on offer at the various piers. It is also possible to take bicycles along, so you can combine your ship tour with a bicycle tour. In addition, the Oceana is available for charter trips.
Pannekoekschip Admiral Nelson
The
Admiral Nelson
is moored at Schlachte Pier 1 - a faithful replica of a frigate with which the famous British Admiral Horatio Nelson once won high-profile naval battles. Also known as the Pannekoekship, the restaurant ship invites you to dine and drink in a 'piratical' atmosphere. There are plenty of seats available both below and on deck. On the menu are soups, salads, sundaes, cakes and of course numerous pancake dishes from sweet to savoury.
Theaterschiff
At Weser Pier 4, in the immediate vicinity of the Wilhelm-Kaisen Bridge, the
Theaterschiff
awaits its guests with varied and laugh-out-loud comedies, revues and cabarets. In two theatre halls, which were set up in the former hold of the converted barge, there is space for a total of 216 spectators. On the deck, a gastronomic offer provides for culinary delights. The location is also available for private parties.
Die Weser
You can spend the night in a maritime atmosphere on a replica of the Weser paddle steamer
"Die Weser"
. The ship, made entirely of wood, is part of Bremen Youth Hostel and lies at the foot of it on pontoon 8 directly on the Schlachte. 26 beds in two separate areas (12 and 14 places) and two double cabins for carers invite you to spend the night on board.
MS Treue
Concerts, extended club nights and a relaxed atmosphere are promised by the
MS Treue
. The former transport ship, which was built entirely of concrete during the steel shortage, is now an event ship that invites you to a variety of events. The MS Treue is permanently moored at the beginning of the Schlachte (jetty Tiefer 3).
Die MS Treue an der Weser.
Windjammer de Liefde
Built in 1941 as a wooden freighter near Groningen, the three-master known today as
"De Liefde"
, which catches the eye with its bold red on the left bank of the Weser, has had an eventful history. Half sunk, doomed to be scrapped and left to decay - the 72-metre-long windjammer faced its end several times until it was bought by Eduard van der Velden in 2003, brought to Bremen and rebuilt on his own.
Aventura
Since spring 2022, visitors have been able to find the well-preserved
Aventura
from 1938 at Schlachte. The ship is the new home of the sailing school "Watt voraus". Here, in cosy lounges, you can study for your sailing licence, among other things. Parties and celebrations are not neglected on the Aventura either, as the ship can also be used as an event location. Visitors can also spend the night in one of the cosy cabins.
MS Loretta
The
MS Loretta
, which was once built as a cargo ship, has already had an eventful history of over 100 years. Although the old lady ship is no longer the youngest, she still has a lot to offer. Today, the MS Loretta serves as a stylish event location. A varied programme of music, theatre, literature and art is regularly offered on board.
Gräfin Emma
Maritime furnishings and historical ambience - the
Gräfin Emma
, named after one of the great female figures of the Middle Ages, has all this to offer. The classically elegant ship once came to beautiful Bremen from southern Germany and has been used here ever since to reinforce the service, as well as on harbour tours and for events.
Find the ships on the map
Alexander von Humboldt
Dauerwelle
Hotelschiff Perle
MS Senator
MS Friedrich
Nedeva
Fahrgastschiff Oceana
Pannekoekschip Admiral Nelson
Theaterschiff
Weser - Schiff der Jugendherberge
MS Treue
Windjammer De Liefde
Aventura
MS Loretta
Gräfin Emma
You might also be interested in...
Guided cycle tours
Discover the Blockland Tour alongside one of our guides
Book now
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
Findorff
Home
Living
Findorff
Findorff
A Mixture of City Life and a green Oasis
Findorff is very centrally located with a direct connection to the main railway station. It is only a few minutes' walk to the city centre. Due to its proximity to the university and good transport links, Findorff is also a popular district among students. The district is not only connected to the city centre, but also to green and recreational areas. The Stadtwaldsee lake and Bürgerpark can be reached directly from here.
Impressions of Findorff
Simply Findorff
Thanks to its location and offerings, Findorff is popular with families as well as younger people. As Findorff is becoming an increasingly popular district, rents are also rising. For single-family homes, especially near the Bürgerpark and around the Weidedamm, you therefore have to dig a little deeper into your wallet. Nevertheless, there are also housing offers for young people, which are always very popular in view of the proximity to the university and are often quickly taken. The district In den Hufen borders directly to the Hochschulring and is located in the immediate vicinity of the university. Findorff offers a wide range of shopping facilities, restaurants and cafés, especially in the Regensburger Straße district. In addition to well-known supermarket chains and the Jan-Reiners-Center, there are also smaller stores for delicacies and clothing in Hemmstraße. Just a short distance away, you will be supplied with fresh fruit, vegetables and much more at the weekly market. There is also a lot going on in this part of town in terms of events. The Findorff-Bürgerweide district regularly hosts open-air events, folk festivals and flea markets. In contrast to these urban influences are the numerous green spaces that Findorff has to offer. The district Weidedamm is located directly at the Bürgerpark and offers many possibilities to relax directly at the water, for example at the Torfkanal.
You shouldn't miss this in Findorff
Data and Facts
Population:
25.886 (as of 12/2019)
Surface Area:
4,265 km²
Districts
Regensburger Straße, Findorff-Bürgerweide,
Weidedamm, In den Hufen
Postcodes
28215
28219
Public Transportation
Bus Routes:
25, 26, 27 und 28
Night Lines:
N7
Ortsamt West - District Management
If you have any requests, comments or complaints about your neighbourhood, please contact the Ortsamt West - District Management.
Weiterlesen
Good to Know!
The Findorff-Bürgerweide is the hub for a wide variety of events! Whether it's the open-air market, Easter meadow, flea market, circus or open-air concert, all events have one thing in common: an acute shortage of parking spaces! You should therefore plan to use public transport to get to the event. Bus routes 25, 26, 27 and 28 are available for this purpose.
You might also be interested in...
Districts of Bremen
Learn more about what you should not miss in the different parts of the city.
Findorff Winterdorf at the Schlachthof
Bürgerpark and the municipal forest
Get to Know Bremen by Bike
Home
Living
Sports
Bremen by bike
Get to Know Bremen by Bike
Get to Know Bremen by Bike
Bremen is a cycling city. So why not get to know the hanseatic city directly from your bike?
Whether for your studies, for your job, because of love or for whatever reason - you've just moved to Bremen and a new, exciting phase of your life has begun. Or are you just paying Bremen a visit? Either way, Bremen is waiting to be conquered by you. The ideal companion is the bicycle: flexible, fast and practical. We'll show you a few places that are worth getting to know by bike. Discover the city of short distances on two wheels!
Bremen Downtown
Bremen's
Town Hall, Roland,
Town Musicians
,
Schnoor Quarter
,
Böttcherstraße
and Co. are always worth a visit and are sure to be on everyone's to-do list of new visitors. You'll find most of the must-sees and much more in Bremen Mitte. Explore the centre and the neighbouring districts on the city centre tour and experience Bremen's diverse city centre.
Explore the Weser
The banks of the Weser invite you to take varied round trips. Whether directly along the dyke, watching the boats or catching a glimpse of the stadium, the Weser is the place to be. We have put together
a suitable route for you
.
The well-known Weser Cycle Path is also worth a long ride on your bike and takes you from Lower Saxony via Bremen to Bremerhaven.
Pure Nature in the Middle of the City
A new start is always stressful. If you want to take a break from the hustle and bustle, you can do so wonderfully in Blockland. The green oasis in the west is a district of Bremen located in the middle of a nature reserve, where more cows live than people and where you will find the best conditions for extended cycling tours - especially because only residents are allowed to drive here. You can find a suggested route with the
Blockland-Round
.
In the Far North
If you follow the Weser downstream from the centre of Bremen, you will come to the north of the city. Although the district north of the Lesum is part of Bremen, the local population often has a feeling of independence. Whether you call the north of Bremen your new home or you just want to explore another corner of Bremen: Vegesack, Blumenthal and Burglesum are well worth a visit. The
Bremer-Norden-Runde
akes you to the most important stops in these districts. By the way, a ferry including your bike will take you from the Martini jetty in Bremen to Vegesack.
In the Green through Bremen's West
The Grünzug West invites you to explore the districts of Walle and Gröpelingen by bike. The 4.5-kilometre-long former railway line takes you through the neighbourhoods in Bremen's west. Connected to the cycling and walking paths of the areas, you can also reach Blockland or the Waller Feldmark from the Grünzug, where you can extend your cycling tours further.
You might also be interested in...
Water Sports
Must-See Attractions
Activities and Experiences in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Activities and Experiences in Bremen
What can I experience on a city trip in Bremen? From a look behind the scenes of unique manufactories to an excursion to the nearby North Sea and a relaxed get-together on the Schlachte, the city on the Weser has a wide variety of activities in store.
No matter if you are on a short trip to Bremen, if you are spending a longer holiday in the region, if a business trip leaves you time for activities besides your professional duties or if you are at home here and are looking for a change from everyday life: There is a lot to experience in Bremen and its surroundings. Let yourself be inspired and spend a great time in the Hanseatic city.
Tips For Every Season
Tips For Your Short Trip
There is so much to discover in the city on the Weser, so many stories to tell and so many adventures to experience that a short trip is not enough to get to know all the facets of Bremen. Nevertheless, the city of short distances is also a wonderful place for a short trip. Many of the most important sights are only a few minutes' walk away from each other, in vibrant and exciting districts you will get an impression of the local lifestyle. Just let yourself drift and be inspired by our tips for your
short trip to Bremen
.
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
48 Hours in Bremen
Plan your two-day trip
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
Sights in Bremen
Tours and Tickets
Look Behind the Scenes and Experience Bremen Brands
Beck's Beer
,
Mercedes-Benz
or
Airbus
, but also small manufactories that produce delicacies such as sweets, coffee or beer, provide insights behind the scenes. In factory tours, guided tours and tastings, you will learn interesting facts about the various productions and immerse yourself in the worlds of Bremen brands.
Behind the Scenes
Take a look behind the scenes of various manufactories and large companies.
Experience Culinary Delights
Guided tours, tastings and more
Stroll, Rummage, Find Treasures - Shopping in Bremen
Finally getting a few days off? Then maybe there is some time for an extended shopping spree. Bremen is just the right place for that. From varied shopping streets, covered arcades,
shopping
centres and outlets to colourful flea markets and weekly markets - Bremen will delight you with its shopping landscape.
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen
Second Hand Shops in Bremen
Excursions and Activities
How about a
tour of the Weser
, an excursion into the countryside or a
bike tour
? Great destinations for varied activities await you in Bremen directly or in the immediate vicinity. Above all, Bremen's sister city
Bremerhaven
invites you to take a tour. But the artists' resorts of
Fischerhude
and
Worpswede
are also well known far beyond the region's borders and are well worth a visit.
Book now
Overview of Bookable Experiences
Overview of Bookable Experiences
Sustainable Activities
Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Parks and Recreation
Worpswede
Fischerhude
Bremerhaven
Trip to Bremerhaven
Along the Coast
Day trips to the North Sea coast
Übersee-Museum Bremen - Ethnology, Trade and Natural History
Übersee-Museum Bremen - Ethnology, Trade and Natural History
The Übersee-Museum, where visitors experience the fascination of distant continents.
The diversity of the world under one roof: the Übersee-Museum presents the cultural and natural areas of our planet on over 10,000 square metres.
The visit takes you from Asia with its legendary Silk Road to the African savannah and the Americas. Current topics such as climate change and migration are explored in the permanent exhibition "Experience what moves the world". Many museum treasures from the collection are waiting to be explored in the "Übermaxx" showcase.
In the "Searching for Traces" exhibition, the museum takes a critical look at its colonial past. The new permanent Oceania exhibition on life and cultures in the Pacific region will be open until autumn 2024. Unique cultural-historical exhibits, masterful animal dioramas, real plants and numerous hands-on stations invite young and old to marvel!
Book now
Übersee-Museum
Übersee-Museum
Book your tickets online
A Journey through the World
The world tour begins in Asia. The continent of contrasts is presented as just that: Vibrant mega-cities such as Shanghai are shown alongside the spiritual tranquillity and tradition of the continent.
The journey continues towards Africa. In addition to life in the vibrant metropolis of Nairobi, the fascinating animal world and Africa's wealth of raw materials are also presented. The exhibition picks up on the diverse history of the continent and shows works by contemporary African artists.
Finally, you can discover the diversity of the Americas. Visitors will come across a large pre-Columbian gold treasure, see a richly laid Thanksgiving table and encounter a life-size bison. In short films, people from North and South America tell their life stories, which are closely linked to immigration, religion, politics and world trade.
The permanent exhibition Oceania is currently being remodelled and is not accessible during the construction phase. As part of the Übersee-Museum's concept for the future, an innovative permanent exhibition on life and cultures in the Pacific region is being created.
The exhibition will open in autumn 2024 with new stories!
Animals and Plants from all over the World
Nature enthusiasts will get their money's worth, especially in the Asian rainforest. Visitors young and old can explore the animals and plants hiding between the thickets and in the treetops at night on two levels.
The nature experience runs through the entire building to the first and second floors, where you can marvel at the flora and fauna of Africa and America. In the Africa exhibition, you can see native animals from the East and South African savannah in masterful large animal dioramas.
Events and Accompanying Programme
Every month, the museum organises events such as lectures, workshops, guided tours and knowledge trips for children. The free Maki Children's Club organises exclusive events for young visitors. Celebrations at the museum - whether private parties, company celebrations or organised children's birthday parties - are also possible!
An overview of upcoming events and the programme accompanying the current special exhibition can be found on the
Übersee-Museum website
.
Free WiFi
The Übersee-Museum has free Wi-Fi that visitors can use during opening hours.
Online Offers
It is also possible to experience the museum online - with offers ranging from a media guide and digital rallies to an interactive coral reef. You can find an overview of all online offers on the
Übersee-Museum website
.
Übersee-Museum
Website
You might also be interested in...
botanika
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Universum Bremen
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/tourism/experience-gift-cards%20
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Rzut oka na Bremę
Rzut oka na Bremę
Znajdź wszystkie informacje potrzebne do zaplanowania podróży. Zarezerwuj zakwaterowanie i przeżycia i zainspiruj się!
Już słynni
muzykanci z Bremy
wiedzieli: w tym mieście żyje się doskonale! Ponad 200 lat temu osioł, pies, kot i kogut wyruszyli we wspólną podróż. Jej celem było wielkie miasto nad Wezerą. I tak właściwie to mieli rację: Brema, która wraz z Bremerhaven tworzy najmniejszy kraj związkowy w Niemczech, sprawia wrażenie tętniącej życiem metropolii. To tutaj tradycja spotyka się z nowoczesnością, a miejski styl życia z północnoniemieckim spokojem. Brema jest miastem, w którym wszystko jest w zasięgu ręki. Nigdzie indziej historia, kultura i styl życia nie są ze sobą tak splecione, jak tutaj, gdzie w większości przypadków dzieli je od siebie zaledwie kilka kroków. Do Bremy najlepiej jest dotrzeć samolotem. Podróż tramwajem z lotniska do centrum miasta zajmuje jedyne jedenaście minut. Warto więc wybrać się w bajeczną podróż śladami muzykantów z Bremy i poczuć doskonałą atmosferę tego miasta!
W sercu miasta
Życie Bremy tętni wokół historycznego
rynku
. To tutaj odnajdziemy kamienny posąg
Rolanda
, tutejszy symbol niezależności, zwrócony w stronę
katedry świętego Piotra
, który wraz z okazałym budynkiem
ratusza
został wpisany na listę światowego dziedzictwa UNESCO. Nieco dalej pomnik
muzykantów z Bremy
zachęca do zrobienia pamiątkowego zdjęcia. Wzdłuż słynnej
Böttcherstraße
, architektonicznego cudu pełnego niespodzianek, biegnie
nadrzeczna promenada Schlachte
. Orzeźwiający napój w ręku i spojrzenie na połyskującą w blasku zachodzącego słońca Wezerę wystarczą, żeby poczuć wakacyjną aurę! A ponadto: znany z reklam telewizyjnych statek
Alexander von Humboldt
stacjonuje właśnie tutaj i przyciąga turystów jako restauracja i hotel. Będąc na promenadzie Schlachte już tylko kilka kroków dzieli nas od
Schnoor
, średniowiecznej starówki z jej wąskimi uliczkami i malowniczymi domkami.
Raj dla młodszych i starszych odkrywców
Wieloryb, muszla czy pistacja? Wygląd budynku
Universum Bremen
potrafi poróżnić – w środku tego interaktywnego centrum nauki czeka na nas ponad 250 eksponatów dotyczących techniki, człowieka i natury. Całe miasto oferuje różnorodne aktywności dla młodszych i nieco starszych odwiedzających. W otoczonych parkiem ogrodach
Botanika
kwitnie druga co do wielkości kolekcja rododendronów na świecie.
Muzeum Zamorskie (Übersee-Museum)
oferuje możliwość wirtualnej podróży na dalekie kontynenty, zaś
centrum rozrywki Airbus
to doskonały wybór dla tych, którzy pragną zajrzeć w głąb przestrzeni kosmicznej. Ci zaś, którzy uwielbiają dreszczyk emocji, powinni skusić się na offroadową podróż samochodem terenowym po
parcourowej trasie „The Rock”
wokół drugiej największej
fabryki Mercedesa
na świecie.
Sztuka, kultura i inne ciekawostki
To nie musi być Luwr czy też Tate Modern: również
galeria sztuki w Bremie
zyskała międzynarodową sławę dzięki swoim wystawom czasowym. Prawdziwych barw miasto nabiera zaś podczas festiwalu
La Strada
: to właśnie wtedy cyrkowcy, tancerze i klauni z całego świata zmieniają Bremę w wielką arenę cyrkową. Wiele różnych występów oferuje również festiwal muzyczny
Breminale
, podczas którego co roku aż 200 000 turystów dociera na zielone brzegi Wezery. Szczególnym miejscem pamięci jest zaś
bunkier okrętów podwodnych Valentin
w dzielnicy Nord. To dzięki niemu możemy zrozumieć historię ponad 10 000 robotników przymusowych, którzy ciężko pracowali tutaj podczas drugiej wojny światowej.
Prawdziwa przyjemność
Na całym świecie znany jest bremeński hit eksportowy w zielonej butelce z charakterystycznym kluczykiem w logo. Zwiedzanie pełnego tradycji
browaru Beck
jest zatem obowiązkowym punktem wycieczki. Ale to zabytkowe miasto handlowe ma do zaoferowania o wiele więcej: to właśnie stąd wywodzi się czekolada Hachez, to tutaj lokal
Ratskeller
oferuje szeroki wybór doskonałej jakości win, a przy dobrym wietrze w powietrzu unosi się wyśmienity aromat prażonej kawy. Czy to niewielka knajpka czy też prawdziwa kuchnia mistrzów – w Bremie jest się gdzie zatrzymać. Ci zaś, którzy skusili się na zbyt wiele lokalnych przekąsek, z łatwością zrzucą nadmiarowe kilogramy: Bremę i tak najlepiej jest
zwiedzać rowerem
– zarówno jej centrum, jak i przedmieścia otoczone naturą.
Przeżyć i doświadczyć
Kiedyś potężne statki, a dziś nowoczesne budownictwo: od roku 2000 na terenie dzielnicy
Überseestadt
, dawnego regionu portowego, powstaje nowoczesna część miasta, pełna śladów kultury, różnych form zamieszkania, pracy i sposobów spędzania wolnego czasu. W tradycyjnym stylu utrzymuje się zaś radosna
Viertel
, bremeńska dzielnica kultury: w licznych knajpkach gromadzą się artyści, studenci oraz inni wielbiciele nocnego życia. W kalendarzu odwiedzających Bremę powinny obowiązkowo znaleźć się dwa wydarzenia. Jesienią turystów przyciąga
Freimarkt
, największe święto ludowe w północnych Niemczech, będące zarazem odpowiedzią na bawarski Oktoberfest, a odbywający się na bajecznej promenadzie
Schlachte
jarmark bożonarodzeniowy
uznawany jest za jeden z najpiękniejszych w Europie.
Zarezerwuj Bremę
Chcesz skorzystać z prywatnego oprowadzania po mieście w Twoim języku?
W pojedynkę, we dwoje lub w grupie? Po indywidualnym uzgodnieniu znajdziemy dla Ciebie idealnego przewodnika w języku obcym. Skontaktuj się z nami pocztą elektroniczną:
info@bremen-tourism.de
lub zadzwoń do nas:
Poniżej przedstawiamy najpopularniejsze oferty pakietowe, moduły i propozycje zwiedzania z przewodnikiem. Oferty są dostępne w języku angielskim.
Dostępność w Bremie
Bremen dokłada wszelkich starań, aby zapewnić dostępność.
Brema w skrócie
Historyczne miasto hanzeatyckie o ponad 1200-letniej historii
Jedenaste co do wielkości miasto Niemiec, liczące ok. 550000 mieszkańców
Wraz z miastem Bremerhaven tworzy najmniejszy kraj związkowy Niemiec
Trzecie najbardziej przyjazne rowerom miasto w Europie
Międzynarodowe lotnisko oddalone o 11 minut jazdy tramwajem od centrum
Połączenia IC/ICE, czas podróży do Hamburga/Hanoweru: 1 godz.; do Berlina: 3 godz.
Ośrodek transportu powietrznego, astronautyki i przemysłu motoryzacyjnego, miasto uniwersyteckie (uczelnia należąca do ścisłej krajowej czołówki), 4 szkoły wyższe i ok. 50 instytutów badawczych
Miejsca do zobaczenia w okolicy: nadmorskie miasto Bremerhaven, wioska artystów Worpswede, stocznia Meyer Werft w Papenburgu, wyspa na pełnym morzu Helgoland
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Freimarkt Bremen - The Biggest Funfair in Nothern Germany
Freimarkt
Freimarkt Bremen - The Biggest Funfair in Nothern Germany
When it's called "Ischa Freimaak", Bremen's fifth season begins! Spectacular merry-go-rounds, tempting treats, a lively atmosphere and lots of fun for young and old - let the Bremen Freimarkt take you away!
Every year in October, the fifth season begins in Bremen: For 17 days the motto on the Bürgerweide and in the city centre is: Ischa Freimaak! The scent of candy cotton and roasted almonds fills the air, rides provide adrenaline while children's eyes light up at the sight of balloons and gingerbread hearts. Here you can find out everything you need to know about the Freimarkt and which dates you shouldn't miss!
When and Where
989th Freimarkt 2024
from 18th October to 3rd November 2024
✔ on Bremen's Bürgerweide (Bremen Fair), Bremen's market square and around the Liebfrauenkirche (Church of Our Lady)
Facts about the Freimarkt
✔ 1st Freimarkt: 1035
✔ Showmen: over 300
Rides: around 40
Event area: 100,000 square metres (Bürgerweide)
Ischa Freimaak - Cheeky and Cheerful, Wild and Whirling, Cosy and Sociable
The largest fair in the north attracts many people every year with its many colourful rides and a lot of good atmosphere. Over 300 showmen and women provide entertainment with their stalls, stands and rides at the traditional Freimarkt. There is plenty to discover both on the Bürgerweide and in the city centre at the "Kleiner Freimarkt". Culinary delights include fragrant gingerbread hearts, red candy apples, steaming lard cakes and many other delicacies. The merry-go-rounds are also the place to be: whether fast and high or leisurely and relaxed - there's something for the adventurous as well as the faint-hearted on one of the 40 or so rides! Meanwhile, it's time to get down to earth in one of the marquees at Bremen's Freimarkt. Here, during the opening hours of the Freimarkt, you can sway to the music and celebrate in a lively atmosphere.
The Small Freimarkt
In the city centre is a small funfair, too. Everything is under the sign of "Ischa Freimaak" and fairground fun, because the Freimarkt also has a little brother there! The "Little Freimarkt" takes you on a journey through time: In addition to nostalgic carousels, you'll also find old-established stalls. On the whole, the market square is a little more peaceful than the Bürgerweide. That's why smaller visitors in particular feel at home here.
Party Time in Halle 7
As soon as the stalls and merry-go-rounds close their doors, there will be pure party action in Hall 7 right next to the Freimarkt grounds. Look forward to various guest stars, a VIP area and much more. Hall 7 is open daily from 9 pm except Tuesdays and Sundays.
Opening Fireworks
The first Freimarkt evening traditionally awaits you with a special highlight! A magnificent firework display gives a preview of the colourful joy that will dominate the Volksfest grounds for the next 17 days. The fireworks start at
approx. 9:45 pm
. The fireworks will be set off in the Bürgerpark and will feature 10 simultaneous shots as well as figure bombs. The Ferris wheel and its passengers will stop right at the start of the fireworks. If you're lucky, you'll get a seat in the front row and can watch the fireworks from close up and from above. If you are strolling through the Freimarkt, you will have a better or worse view depending on where you are. This is why many visitors are drawn to Eickedorferstrasse or Findorffstrasse in the direction of Bürgerpark. Here the view of the fireworks is a little more unobstructed.
Scents and Lights Beckon - Ischa Freimaak
The Freimarkt has been attracting crowds for a very long time, as the footage from the Landesfilmarchiv from the 1960s shows. The fifth season is, of course, much older - almost 1000 years. The first Freimarkt took place in 1035, making it one of the oldest public festivals in Germany. The historic Freimarkt, which stretches from the town hall to the Liebfrauenkirche (Church of Our Lady) between Bremen's magnificent buildings, takes you back to its beginnings.
The Freimarkt Parade
In addition to the opening fireworks, the Freimarkt parade is a very special highlight of the festival for many Freimarkt fans. Always on the second Saturday of the Freimarkt season, the parade attracts thousands of spectators to the streets of Bremen's New Town and city centre. You can look forward to colourfully dressed-up groups, marching bands and floats, as well as a sweet or two cheerfully thrown into the crowd by those riding along. The spectacle ends with the awarding of prizes to the most beautiful and imaginative floats. The parade can also be followed on North German television.
Freimarkt Map
Get an overview: Funfair rides, roller coasters and railways, pubs and children's rides.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
Osterwiese
Roland Statue Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Roland Statue Bremen
Roland Statue Bremen
Bremen's "Statue of Liberty" - a symbol of trading rights and freedom since 1404.
In 1404, the stone Roland was erected in front of Bremen's town hall. From the very beginning, it was a symbolic figure for the city's "freedoms" and rights. Since 2004, Bremen's landmark has shared a place on UNESCO's World Heritage List with the well worth seeing Town Hall.
The most Important Information at a Glance:
Knight statue on the market square
Built in 1404
Height: 10 metres
UNESCO World Heritage Site
Bremen's Landmark
One of Bremen's best-known landmarks is the 10-metre-high Roland statue in front of the historic town hall on the market square. Bremen's Roland has stood guard over the city's freedom and rights since 1404. It is not only popular with Bremen residents and tourists, UNESCO experts have declared it the most representative and beautiful Roland monument in Germany. The Roland statue and the town hall have been on the UNESCO World Heritage List since July 2004.
Profile
The Legend of Emma von Lesum - A short Version
The widowed Countess Emma von Lesum was considered pious and charitable. Her kindness of heart was known among the burghers, a quality that caused her brother-in-law Duke Benno of Saxony to worry about his inheritance.
On one occasion, the countess granted two burghers more grazing land for their cattle, "as much as a man could walk around in an hour". Her cunning brother-in-law chose a beggar for this measuring march, who could not move without outside help. Countess Emma, however, calmly put her hand on his head, prayed and told him to try. He did not succeed in walking, but he crawled. The townspeople retreated in disappointment, having little hope that the beggar could "crawl" a particularly large grazing area. However, the "cripple" crawled steadily on and in the evening they were surprised at the large area. Today we still know this area as Bürgerweide. The people of Bremen did not forget the "cripple" and honoured him at the feet of Roland.
You might also be interested in...
Market Square
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Tea from Bremen: Tips for Tea Stores in Bremen
Home
Living
Tea from Bremen
Tea from Bremen
Whether you prefer on-trend teas such as Matcha or the classic East Frisian blend: try Bremen's blends and discover tea rooms ranging from traditional to Far Eastern.
The question "Lust auf Kaffeesieren?" which loosely translates to "Fancy a cup of coffee?" is often heard in Bremen, but what about tea? The Hanseatic city's tea tradition goes back to the merchants of Bremen. In addition to tobacco, coffee and fish, the people here also traded in tea. And whether it's a warming cup in winter or a refreshing blend in summer: we'll tell you in which tea room and tea store leaves, buds, flowers, fruits, bark, roots and stems unfold into aromatic tea variations and find their way into your cup.
Babbeler Tee and Bremer Senatstee
The longest cough sweet in the world is a tea? Precisely this taste of peppermint and aniseed has been captured in a tea variety by the team at the
Martinshof
: the Babbeler Tee.They also offer various products for your breakfast at home all associated with the weekly Senate breakfast in the Rathaus: Senate coffee, Senate jam and of course, Senate tea, too.
Bremer Gewürzhandel
Apart from spices, the Bremer
Gewürzhandel
also offers a wide range of teas:Herbal tea, fruit tea, black tea, green tea, rooibos tea, or spiced tea. Why not visit the shop in Findorff or order your tea online. The teas are blended without any artificial colourings or flavours and all the other products are free from flavour enhancers, artificial additives, or bulking agents/fillers. Are you familiar with the
‘Genusshelfer-Initiative’
? For every product that the Bremer Gewürzhandel sells, they donate at least 1 cent to social projects.
Buddhawelt Teehaus Bremen
The
Buddhawelt Teehaus
makes tea-lovers’ hearts beat faster. The matcha tea brewed freshly at your table glows light green from the bowl and you are spoiled for choice when it comes to your seating area: You can either enjoy one of the organic teas in the Asian tea room, the conservatory with a view of the tea garden with Buddha statues, or you can watch the lively hustle and bustle in the
Viertel district
right beside the Steintor gate. Of course you can also take the tea home with you and savour it there.
Kaffee & Tee Hemken
Since 1951, the original specialist retailer
Kaffee & Tee Hemken
in the
Viertel district
has been offering different types of tea from all over the world: flavoured green and black teas, fruit teas, rooibos teas, lapacho tea, yogi tea, and Ayurvedic teas. And what makes it really special is that the tea comes directly from the port of entry, so you know you are getting a good price.
My Cup Of Tea
The young entrepreneur from Bremen, Timo-Noé Chitula, founded the tea label
My Cup Of Tea
in 2016. He started by exclusively selling organically produced tea online. In the meantime, you can now find the handmade Asian tea specialities at the following locations in Bremen as well: Lestra and Sel Fair.
Kassiopeia
On Bismarckstrasse, you will find another traditional teahouse in Bremen, called
Kassiopeia
. The business has been in the hands of its owner Ursula John since 1954. Approximately 300 different types of tea are decanted there.The shop is also great for getting advice and accessories, such as teapots or warmers.
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen
From Bremen across the world: The
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen
has been around for 40 years now and supplies more than 150 different types of tea to its branches all across Germany. The company has three shops in Bremen: On Böttcherstraße, in the Domshof-Passage and at the main station.
Betty Darling Company
The
Betty Darling Company
offers you various tea varieties from Darjeeling, Nilgiri, Assam, Nepal or China exclusively online. The ‘Betty Darling’s’ range of teas is particularly popular. Besides tea, you can also get chocolate, honey, or marmalade.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Martinshof City Centre
Martinshof has a total of seven points of sale. You can find two of them on our map: the City Shop and the Airport Shop.
Am Markt 1, 28195 Bremen-Mitte
Martinshof Airport
Martinshof has a total of seven points of sale. You can find two of them on our map: the City Shop and the Airport Shop.
Flughafenallee 23, 28199 Bremen
Bremer Gewürzhandel
In the rear building of Leipziger Straße 85 in Findorff you will find the Bremer Gewürzhandels warehouse outlet. A lovingly designed little shop.
Emil-Sommer-Straße 10, 28329 Bremen
Buddhawelt Teehaus Bremen
A versatile tea room awaits you here.
Vor dem Steintor 30, 28203 Bremen
Kaffee & Tee Hemken
The traditional company awaits you.
Am Dobben 69, 28203 Bremen-Mitte
My Cup Of Tea (Sel Fair)
You can currently get the tea at two points of sale in Bremen: Lestra and Sel Fair.
Vor dem Steintor 187, 28203 Bremen
My Cup Of Tea (Lestra)
You can currently get the tea at two points of sale in Bremen: Lestra and Sel Fair.
Horner Heerstraße 29-31, 28359 Bremen
Kassiopeia
One of Bremen's oldest tea establishments: Kassiopeia at Bismarckstraße 89
Bismarckstraße 89, 28203 Bremen.
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen (Böttcherstraße)
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen is represented three times: in Böttcherstraße, Domshofpassage and in the main railway station.
Böttcherstraße 9, 28195 Bremen
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen (Domshofpassage)
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen is represented three times: in Böttcherstraße, Domshofpassage and in the main railway station.
Katharinenstraße 7, 28195 Bremen
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen (main railway station)
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen is represented three times: in Böttcherstraße, Domshofpassage and in the main railway station.
Bahnhofspl. 15, 28195 Bremen
The Betty Darling Company
The Betty Darling Company offers you various teas.
Otto-Lilienthal-Straße 8, 28199 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Commerce
Home
Commerce
Commerce
All you need to know about Bremen's economy, working in Bremen or starting a business. Information on establishing, expanding or relocating a business as well as development programmes, funding and networks.
Bremeninvest: your key to Germany
Commercial property
Business parks, industrial estates and more
Bremen in numbers
Facts about Bremen
Visit the Website
Housing
Moving to Bremen
Plan your Sustainable Visit to Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Sustainable Visit
Plan your Sustainable Visit to Bremen
Here's how to make your next trip to Bremen more sustainable!
People who travel sustainably make an effort to act responsibly and in an environmentally friendly manner not only in their everyday lives, but also when traveling. This means taking the cultural and social aspects of your holiday destination into account and doing your best to protect nature and the environment. Making an informed decision about the type of accommodation you choose, the activities available at your vacation spot and how you move around whilst there can help you find the best offers, enjoy authentic experiences and get a better understanding of local culture.
A growing number of hotels, restaurants and other tourist businesses in Bremen are putting increasing emphasis on issues of sustainability. We've put together a number of tips on a range of topics such as how you can travel to and stay in Bremen in a sustainable way. Bremen's reputation as the "city of short distances" means it is wonderfully easy to explore either on foot or by bike. Come and spend time relaxing in the city's many parks and green spaces! You'll also find a multitude of
sustainable eco-friendly activities
that promote social inclusion when it comes to shopping, leisure and socialising. We hope you enjoy our suggestions about how to make your visit to our city greener and more sustainable.
Travelling Sustainably
Sustainable Overnight Stays in and around Bremen
We've put together a list of Bremen hotels with an internationally recognised sustainability certificate and other accommodation options in the surrounding area that follow a particularly sustainable concept. Other hotels with details about what they do to promote sustainability are listed below.
Book now
Hotels in Bremen with Sustainability Information
Hotels in Bremen with Sustainability Information
From an in-house power plant to regional products and an apiary
Conscious Eating
Sustainable Activities
Whether it's a guided exploration tour by bike, a stroll through various second-hand shops or a visit to one of the numerous museums and knowledge worlds - a lot of sustainable experiences await you in Bremen!
Getting around the City
Accessible Bremen
You'll find more detailed information about fully accessible accommodation, attractions, excursions and activities, covering art, culture, sport and leisure
here
.
Plant Tours and Factory Visits in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Plant Tours and Factory Visits in Bremen
Take a look behind the scenes of different factories and large companies.
Bremen is a brand capital – home to such big names as Beck's, Mercedes-Benz and Airbus. But Bremen also features a number of smaller manufacturers producing a variety of artisan goods.
Take a look behind the scenes. On various factory tours we will open the doors to production areas and give you a glimpse of our treasures. Find out how beer is brewed, how high-end cars are built and how astronauts live in space. On the tours of the smaller producers you can see how, aromatic coffee and fine brandies are made.
International Brands
Mercedes-Benz
Airbus
Liquid Pleasures
Book now
'Aerospace Bremen' guided tour
'Aerospace Bremen' guided tour
Book now
Guided tour of the Ratskeller
Guided tour of the Ratskeller
Bremen Experts
For tourist questions and bookings, the professionals of the official tourism organization can help you via the service telephone 0421-3080010 or in the tourist information.
Sweet delicacies
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur (Candy Store)
Manke & Coldewey Lebkuchen Manufaktur
Guided Tours & Trips
Enjoy an entertaining and informative tour accompanied by a guide.
The Viertel - Shopping meets Culture
Home
Living
Shopping
The Viertel
The Viertel
Culture, pubs, culinary delights and plenty of shopping
Behind Weserdeich, the districts of Ostertor and Steintor combine to form what locals simply call “the quarter” (das Viertel). Just a stone’s throw from Bremen city centre, this popular and vibrant quarter has a colourful artistic and cultural scene, plenty of pubs and bars, independent shops, a wide range of restaurants and cafés, and many pretty examples of typical Bremen houses.
Culture at its best
The Viertel starts at
Wallanlagen Park
and immediately offers up culture en masse.
The Kunsthalle art gallery
,
the Gerhard Marcks House
,
the Wilhelm Wagenfeld House
and Bremen Theatre all line up one after the other, showcasing outstanding exhibitions and a wide range of opera, dance and theatre. There are also many smaller studios and creative projects in Ostertor and Steintor. The Cinema Ostertor and the Schauburg with their eclectic cinema programme and welcoming bars are also worth a visit.
Kunsthalle Bremen
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
Theatre
Some theatres are also located in this quarter.
Strolling and shopping
The many small shops and boutiques are a particular standout feature of the Viertel. From
fair-trade fashion
, jewellery and stationery to shoes, household goods and cosmetics, you’re sure to find anything your heart desires in this vibrant quarter. Including the odd special find. You can also look forward to a real culinary adventure. More than 300 cosy cafés, bars and pubs, smaller bistros and restaurants serving international cuisine,
delicatessens
and a wide variety of grocery stores will spoil your taste buds.
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen.
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Immerse yourself in the nightlife
Night owls will come into their own in the Viertel. A whole host of cocktail bars and hip and trendy pubs are waiting to be discovered, and there are smaller clubs where you can dance the night away. But no matter whether you’re propping up the bar, hitting the dancefloor or sipping on an elegant cocktail, no night on the tiles in the Viertel is complete without a rollo, a rolled-up, stuffed flatbread invented in Bremen.
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Bremen for night owls
Impressions from the Viertel
Public transport
Tram:
2, 3, 10
Night tram:
N10
Out and about in Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Extended Opening Hours
Late-Night Shopping and Sunday Opening
Östliche Vorstadt
Districts of Bremen
Haus der Bürgerschaft - Bremen's State Parliament
Home
Tourism
Sights
Haus der Bürgerschaft - Bremen's State Parliament
Haus der Bürgerschaft - Bremen's State Parliament
On 9 September 1966, the House of Parliament was inaugurated as the seat of the Bremen Parliament.
Bremische Bürgerschaft
Here you'll find the parliament's website
In the
Haus der Bürgerschaft
(House of the citizens) on the Marktplatz - right in the centre of Bremen - members of parliament debate and wrestle for majorities. They make or amend motions. They pass or amend laws. The parliament legislates on the budget and controls the government. It acts through the speakers of the various parliamentary groups and with the members of the Senate in public session, in front of mostly packed stands and under the eyes and ears of journalists.
Sculpture Garden
The Bürgerschaft includes the Sculpture Garden with six pieces by Gerhard Marcks. It was opened in 2005. The sculpture garden can be visited during the opening hours of the citizenship.
Opening Hours
Monday till Thursday
8-19 h
Friday
8-18 h
You might also be interested in...
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Sights in Bremen
The Hanseatic city has a lot to offer
Family and Children
Home
Living
Family and Children
Family and Children
Explore Bremen with children
Out and About with the Family
Shopping
Schwarzes Brett
Bremen's market place
Shopping for Children
Colouring Pictures
Sports & fun
Children's and Baby Swimming
Children's Sports
Amusement Parks
Adventure non-stop in Bremen's surroundings
familiennetz bremen
The familiennetz bremen is a neutral, independent and free specialist and service centre on the topic of family.
ferienkompass
The bremer ferienkompass offers parents an overview of great holiday offers for their children.
Unusual Accommodation in and around Bremen
Unusual Accommodation in and around Bremen
Sleep in an extraordinary place - for a unique stay and an unforgettable experience.
Are you looking for a truly unique experience? Then use your next free weekend to escape from the daily grind, discover new places and feel the spirit of adventure! Here are a few of the extraordinary places to spend the night in and around Bremen that will stay in your memory long after you've returned home. You could sleep right out in the countryside, surrounded by wild animals, on or by the water, or high above the ground: you decide, it's your adventure!
HafenTraum Indoor Hostel
Camping with fine weather guaranteed – how's that possible in Northern Germany?! In the
HafenTraum, the indoor camping hostel
in Bremen's
Überseestadt
(New Harbour District), there's no need to worry about wind and weather because everything is under the roof. You choose where you want to spend the night, in rustic wooden cabins, a cosy "tiny house" or a compact yet stylish vintage caravan. Inspired by traditional buildings found in different seafaring nations, it gives you the feeling you're going on your own round the world voyage, when you stay here.
Book now
HafenTraum IndoorHostelCamp
HafenTraum IndoorHostelCamp
Spend the Night on the Water
Are you one of those people who find themselves mysteriously drawn to any expanse of water? If so, our suggestions for spending the night on the water might be just the thing for you! You don't always have to go to the seaside. The banks of rivers or lakes are also the ideal places to relax.
Spend the Night in Bremen's Oldest Neighbourhood
The houses in the Schnoor don't just conjure up the image of a string of pearls: you'll also find other gems hidden behind the house fronts in these narrow alleyways. In this car-free oasis, you'll quickly forget that you're only five minutes away from the hurly burly of the city. It's the ideal place to draw a breath and relax.
Hansecamping
Relaxation, freedom and getting close to nature – that sounds like the perfect holiday. You've been dreaming of doing this for so long, but you don't have your own mobile home or camper van. No problem: you can rent a fully equipped mobile home at the
Hansecamping
camp site for a minimum stay of two nights. Located right on Bremen's Stadtwaldsee lake, it's the perfect starting point from which to discover the wonders of nature. Bremen's city centre is also easily reached by bicycle.
Overnight accommodation around Bremen
Whether you're a Bremen local, or just visiting the city, there are numerous options for discovering what lies outside the city limits. All the places to stay that are listed here are between 13 and 80 kilometres away from Bremen.
You might also be interested in...
Stroll and Hike
Excursions
Days out and the surrounding region.
Day Trips to the North Sea Coast
Mobility and Traffic in Bremen
Home
Living
Mobility and Traffic
Mobility and Traffic
How to get around in the Hanseatic city.
Ferries in Bremen
Cross the Weser and enjoy Bremen's shortest boat ride or set out on a short trip to the beach.
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Cycling in Bremen
In no other city in Germany with more than 500,000 inhabitants do more people cycle than in Bremen.
Das Rathaus Bremen "Obere Rathaushalle"
Bremen for Cyclists – Tips and Info for your Cycling Holiday
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Cyclists
Cycling Holidays in Bremen
Discover the historic Hanseatic city on your bike: we have all the tips and offers you need.
Bremen is a compact city where the bicycle is more than just a means of transport: it's a way of life. What's more, our Hanseatic city is linked to a number of long-distance cycle routes, making it a perfect destination for your next cycling holiday. Let us inspire you!
Is it really possible to discover an entire Federal State by bike?
In Bremen you can do just that! A bicycle is the perfect way of getting to know the "two-town state". The City Centre circuit in Bremen and the Bremerhaven circuit bring you to the main tourist attractions in the two sister-towns. A 91-kilometre section of the Weser Cycle Way links them together. If the journey from Bremen to Bremerhaven or vice versa is too far for you, you can also travel from A to B by ship or train, and take your bike with you.
Tips and Offers
We've gathered together the most important tips and some exciting offers to help you get the most out of your cycling holiday in Bremen. You'll also find information and special offers in our
Bike information package
(Stadt-Land-Rad). Order one today and start planning your cycling adventure in and around Bremen.
Book now
The Best Hotels for your Cycling Holiday
The Best Hotels for your Cycling Holiday
Stadt-Land-Rad (City, Countryside, Cycle) Information Pack
Flyers & Brochures
Book now
Discover Bremen by Bike
Discover Bremen by Bike
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Long-distance cycle routes from and through Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Bike Tours & Packages
Guided Cycle Tours
Bike Citizens App
The easy and convenient way to follow exciting bike tours.
Planning and Booking your Trip
Water Sports in Bremen
Active on and in the Water
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Offers for your Group Trip to Bremen
Home
Tourism
Booking
Group Offers
Offers for your Group Trip to Bremen
The Hanseatic city of Bremen is simply ideal for large and small groups. Here you will find the right offers!
The best travel memories are the ones you can share with people - visit Bremen together as a group! Eating, drinking and celebrating in an exuberant and cheerful way, or rather sitting together in a cozy round? Discover Bremen's historical, maritime or cultural sides? No problem, because Bremen offers you everything. We are also happy to create an individual group offer.
Packages, experiences and accommodation
Whether on the Weser, in the old town or in the surrounding area - find the right offer for your group trip.
We offer you:
qualified group advice
free, individual and personal advice from A-Z
exclusive offers and group discounts
Customer Advisory and Sales
By phone and online: We will be happy to advise you on all aspects of your stay in Bremen.
Guided tours, trips and sightseeing
Book your individual group experience
Gastronomy and group experiences
There is something for everyone here!
Accommodations for groups
Take advantage of our low group rates in many hotels
Selected group offers
Whether it's a guided tour, a city rally or a travel package - here you'll find a selection of our bestsellers that are especially suitable for groups. By the way: Every package can also be booked for groups. Let us inspire you - we'll be happy to advise you!
Book now
Package for groups
Package for groups
With hotel, program & food
Book now
Legendary Bremen
Legendary Bremen
Bremen stories, legends and anecdotes
Lively acting tours for groups
Guide "to go"
Individual guided tour
Guided tours for school classes
Book now
Discover Bremen by bike
Discover Bremen by bike
Guided bike tour for groups
Brochures and catalogues
Do you like to browse through brochures? Choose the brochures, maps and information you want and we'll send them to your home free of charge.
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Dolce Vita in the far north? Definitely! The sweet life awaits you at Schlachte - Bremen's gastro hotspot and promenade on the Weser.
The Schlachte - located in the heart of Bremen directly along the Weser - has seen a lot in its 800-year history and has displayed many different faces. As a former waterfront harbour, it has been transformed into today's maritime gastronomic mile with numerous restaurants, bars and pubs. Stroll along the Weser and enjoy one of the many local beer gardens.
Summer-Feeling and Relaxation
Especially during summer, the Schlachte is a popular get-together for Bremen residents and visitors of all generations. The first Sunday in March is traditionally the opening of the season for the summer gardens and beer gardens on the Schlachte. From here and also during walks up to the Osterdeich or in the direction of
Überseestadt
, you can enjoy the wonderful atmosphere on the Weser. You can let your gaze wander over the river and have a great view of the many adjacent
ships
, such as the legendary
Alexander von Humboldt
.
Impressions of the Schlachte
Magical Winter
Even in the cold season, the Schlachte does not lose its very special charm: in December, the annual Schlachte Magic casts its wintry and mystical spell on its visitors. At this very special Christmas market you can expect treats, arts and crafts, jugglers, pure entertainment and a very magical atmosphere. As dusk falls, the historical maritime medieval market is bathed in atmospheric blue light. And the adjacent ships will also shine in festive lighting. You can hear the vendors haggling over every penny, while the scent of spices, sweet and savoury food tickles your nostrils and mead, mocha or hot apples warm your heart in the freezing temperatures.
The Christmas Market
The Schlachte - Past and Present
The term "Schlachte", first mentioned in a document in 1250, goes back to the Low German word "Slait" and referres to the pile-like structures used to reinforce the banks of the Weser in the 13th century. For many centuries, maritime trade flourished and even in old harbour times there were many taverns and hostels on the Schlachte. They were mainly frequented by the dock workers and served as a meeting place for wages until the increasing silting up of the Middle and Lower Weser put an end to the hustle and bustle at the riverside harbour in the late 19th century. It was not until Expo 2000 that the Schlachte was completely redesigned. A great fortune for the people of the city and its visitors, who can now enjoy the maritime flair of the Weser promenade to the full.
A Look into the Past
Old Habour Takes on New Function
Even though the days of the Schlachte as a waterfront harbour have long been numbered, the Martinianleger still goes on great journeys today: the Weser round trips enjoy great popularity. Harbour tours, "Kohl und Pinkel" tours on the water, "Weser-Bord-Partys", trips to Bremerhaven, Oldenburg or Verden - Bremen and the surrounding area can be easily explored by water. And if you're planning a leisurely
bike tour
afterwards, you can simply take your bike along on many tours.
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Maritime Bremen
Ships on the Weser
Trips and tours on boats and ships
Cycling in Bremen
Home
Living
Sports
Bremen by bike
Cycling in Bremen
In no other city in Germany with more than 500,000 inhabitants do more people cycle than in Bremen. The people here love their bikes! The many cycle paths in Bremen offer something for everyone!
Bremen is famous for being a walkable and well-connected city, but few people are aware that it also has more cycle paths than most other cities in Germany. However, this is not the only reason why cycling in Bremen is a true pleasure. The many parks and green spaces and the almost complete absence of hills make it the perfect place for bike rides with the whole family. From cycling enthusiasts to casual recreational riders – the many cycle paths in Bremen offer something for everyone!
Get to Know Bremen by Bike!
Plan your Route!
The Bike Citizens navigation system is available for your browser.
Cycling Tours in and around Bremen
Bike Citizens App
The easy and convenient way to follow exciting bike tours.
Impressions: Bremen by Bike
Book now
Hotels for Cyclists
Hotels for Cyclists
Here you can find the right accommodation for your cycling trip
Bike Hire Outlets
A selection of cycle hire options in Bremen
Book now
Guided Cycling Tour through Bremen
Guided Cycling Tour through Bremen
Brepark Fahrradparkhaus and Radstation at the Bremen Train Station
Bremen for Cyclists
Find some Inspiration for your Stay in our Hanseatic City!
Long-distance Cycle Routes in and around Bremen
Various sections of these routes are also suitable for one-day bike rides.
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/life-in-bremen/food-and-drink/bremen-specialties
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour Bremen
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour Bremen
Take a look behind the scenes at one of Germany's most modern car factories and witness at close hand the production of a Mercedes.
Bremen is the Largest Mercedes Production Location in the World
The Hanseatic city is also home to world-famous brands. Mercedes-Benz has also established itself on the Weser. With more than 12,500 employees, the Mercedes-Benz plant in Bremen is the largest private employer in the region. At the Mercedes-Benz Customer Center Bremen, you can not only pick up your new vehicle or enjoy a delicious meal in the restaurant, but also "immerse" yourself in various vehicle types at innovative installations relating to Mercedes-Benz vehicles. There is also a play area for the little ones.
Book now
Group Tour
Group Tour
Mercedes-Benz Factory
Offroad Adventures on The Rock
Are you a fan of action and adventure? Then take up the challenge and test your driving skills on the Mercedes-Benz off-road vehicle course "The Rock". In the middle of the city, you can experience driving fun and off-road power around Bremen's third-highest elevation with a 70% gradient and 80% slope!
Book now
The Rock!
The Rock!
Book now
After Work on the Off-Road Vehicle Course
After Work on the Off-Road Vehicle Course
You might also be interested in...
Airbus
Look Behind the Scenes
UNESCO World Heritage: Town Hall and Roland Statue Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
UNESCO World Heritage: Town Hall and Roland Statue Bremen
UNESCO World Heritage: Town Hall and Roland Statue Bremen
Bremen's pride and joy is its ensemble of the Town Hall and Roland, which has been recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage. Definitely worth a visit!
Bremen's Town Hall and
Roland
, apart from the
Town Musicians
, are two of Bremen's most famous
sights
that should not be missing on any bucket list for the Hanseatic city. The duo is beautifully presented on the north-east side of the
market square
and attracts numerous visitors every day. No wonder, after all, the ensemble is absolutely unique. That's why it has been on UNESCO's World Heritage List as a cultural monument since 2004, and rightly so. A notable detail: Bremen's town hall is the only town hall in the world to receive this honour.
Unique Examples of Democracy and Self-Determination
The Town Hall and Roland are part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site because they represent the development of civic autonomy and sovereignty in a European urban society in an outstanding way. The Town Hall has been the seat of municipal self-government and state government since it was built in 1405, while Roland, dating from 1404, has always symbolised the rights and privileges of the Hanseatic city. At the same time, as part of Bremen's market square, they are incorporated into an impressive ensemble of monuments to the church, parliamentarianism, business and culture.
Information for People with Disabilities
Das Rathaus Bremen - Obere Rathaushalle
Das Rathaus Bremen - Untere Rathaushalle
A Look inside the Town Hall
As the seat of the state government, Bremen's Town Hall is not only an important place for political decisions. It is also open to all its guests - whether for Senate events, guided tours, exhibitions and markets in the Lower Town Hall Chamber or a visit to the unique Ratskeller (a wine cellar). You can even get married in this spectacular building.
BremenGo - Augmented Reality App
Take a look behind the façade of the town hall and get an exclusive view into the Güldenkammer. Learn even more about Roland with a quiz. The Town Musicians become your personal tour guides!
The Roland Statue
In front of the town hall, Bremen's Roland proudly awaits you, the city's landmark and representative of its freedom since its construction. With its impressive overall height of 10.21 metres, Bremen's Roland is not only the largest free-standing statue of the German Middle Ages, it is also, according to UNESCO, the most beautiful Roland monument in the country in all its splendour. You're bound to notice its pointed knees. Or have you already discovered the "cripple" at his feet? If you want to know what this is all about and what else is worth knowing about the stone giant, then you should definitely read on in our article about
Bremen's Roland
.
Exciting Vault: the Bremen Ratskeller
The "delicious basement of the town hall" - Bremen's Ratskeller has this nickname for a reason. The vaults below the Liebfrauenkirchhof and the Domshof are not only home to one of Bremen's most traditional restaurants, but also to the world's largest selection of exclusively German wines. As part of Bremen's town hall, the Ratskeller is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and impresses with its over 600-year-old history. Find out more about the Bremen Ratskeller
here
.
Book now
Guided visit to the Ratskeller (Groups)
Guided visit to the Ratskeller (Groups)
Good to know
What does World Heritage mean?
UNESCO set itself a goal in 1972: to protect places, buildings and natural sites of exceptional significance and to preserve them for humanity. Bremen committed itself to precisely this when it signed the convention in 2004 and submitted a convincing conservation plan. For the coveted seal, one of the ten UNESCO criteria on the uniqueness and authenticity of a cultural monument must be met: City Hall and Roland have achieved it. The UNESCO World Heritage List currently comprises 1,052 World Heritage sites in 165 countries. In Germany, 41 sites are protected under the international agreement for the cultural and natural heritage of mankind. As a rule, UNESCO cannot provide financial support and can remove a World Heritage Site from the list in the event of a violation of the Convention. For detailed information, please visit
the UNESCO website
.
You might also be interested in...
Book now
Guided Tour
Guided Tour
Sights in Bremen
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Dancing and Partying in Bremen
Dancing and Partying in Bremen
"Carpe noctem - make the most of the night" - the people of Bremen don't need to be told twice! Pick your party location from our introductions.
From trendy clubs to large-scale discos, Bremen offers a number of options for all party animals who like to dance the night away. Whether you belong to the younger generation or have been part of the party scene for a while, we have put together a few locations for your night out.
Here you can find all the Locations:
Modernes
Dance night, electro or concerts - something for everyone. Neustadtswall 28
Tower Musikclub
For all those who can't wait for the weekend. Herdentorsteinweg 7
Aladin Music Hall
For the crazy parties at the Aladin, you're more than happy to make the journey to it. Hannoversche Str. 9
NFF Club
An absolute must if you want to experience the party scene in Bremen! Katharinenstraße 15
MS Treue
The party ship for electronic music lovers. Anleger 1 (Altenwall höhe Tiefer), Tiefer
La Viva
Anyone who wants to party in style is in the right place here. Schillerstraße 1
Römer
The Römer offers the place to go for fans of electronic music. Fehrfeld 31
Shagall
From pop to metal, every music genre is represented here. Rembertiring 4
Lila Eule
Casual partying, not only for students. Bernhardstraße 10
Liberty Nightclub
The young club brings you RnB and hip hop. Hillmannplatz 13-15
You might also be interested in...
Schlachte Embankment
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Alternative and individual – the Viertel
Bremerhaven
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Excursions
Bremerhaven
Bremerhaven
Catch a fresh breeze at Bremens seaport.
The neverending sky of Northern Germany. The constant beat of tidal waves. The toing and froing of mighty ships from every corner of the world. Old seafaring dreams. Navigation lights gleaming on the lightless river. Floating sails that belly in the sunshine. Seabirds that fly into the sunset. The surging of the storm tide. And the hooting of foghorns in the early hours of the morning. Sights and sounds that typify the busy deep-water seaport of Bremerhaven.
Many attractions await you in Bremerhaven that offer real eye-opening perspectives on the city by the sea. They are ranging from the German Maritime Museum and the Zoo to the wartime U-boat "Wilhelm Bauer".
Moreover local cuisine offers a variety of delicious seafood dishes. Several classy restaurants await you. We have handpicked the most prominent and included them in our travel offers.
Is a huge and busy seaport really able to grand you a relaxing holiday? Bremerhaven will just fit the bill! The city's distinct setting on the mouth of the Weser almost makes it merge with the North Sea, ensuring a steady supply of clean and fresh air. Why not go on a leisurely walk along the many shore promenades at the dyke as the sea breeze tousles your hair? Alternatively, you can hire a bicycle to explore the marshland to the south of the city or the tiny seaside resorts to its north. Another great idea for a day out is a trip aboard a real square-rigged sailboat on the North Sea.
Since its foundation in 1827, Bremerhaven and its overseas harbour have developed into one of the largest port cities in Europe. Situated at the mouth of the Weser into the North Sea, visitors to the Hanseatic city enjoy a maritime ambience. The atmosphere of Bremerhaven can be experienced especially during a stroll along the Weser dyke.
Bremerhaven Nature Tour
Explore Bremerhaven by Bike
Let our free smartphone app be your guide!
A Glimpse into the Past - Schaufenster Fischereihafen
Follow in the footsteps of the past on a guided tour of the Schaufenster Fischereihafen - a part of the historic fishing harbour that is over 100 years old. A look into the old Fischbahnhof or a visit to a fish smokehouse promises exciting impressions and interesting facts about the history of the harbour.
Always Worth a Visit
Harbour Tours
Exploring Bremerhaven by ship on a
harbour tour
could be the highlight of your trip. A one-hour tour in a glass-roofed ship takes passengers through all seven overseas ports and gives an insight into port life with its shipyards, huge ships and much more.
Book now
Bremen-Bremerhaven (one-way)
Bremen-Bremerhaven (one-way)
Book now
Bremen-Bremerhaven (there and back)
Bremen-Bremerhaven (there and back)
You might also be interested in...
Sail Bremerhaven
The Bremerhaven Tour
Day Trips to the North Sea Coast
Take a boat trip out to Helgoland, set sail on the sea or gaze at gargantuan cruise ships.
Tickets for Tours and Sights in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Booking
Tours and Tickets
Tickets for Tours and Sights in Bremen
Here you can book the most popular tours and tickets!
When you're in Bremen, there are plenty of experiences waiting for you. Explore the different sides of the Hanseatic City on a guided tour. Our offer is as diverse as the city itself. Whether it's a factory tour, a culinary tour or a visit to the museum, we have tickets and offers for you.
Our most popular offers
Book now
Guided City Tour
Guided City Tour
Book now
Guided Tour of Town Hall
Guided Tour of Town Hall
Book now
Tour with the Nightwatchman
Tour with the Nightwatchman
Book now
Tickets for Museums, Botanika, Universum and more
Tickets for Museums, Botanika, Universum and more
Gift Vouchers - Book Directly Online
A Bremen Experience to give away, what a nice Idea!
Behind the Scenes
Bremen is the brand capital - this includes names like Beck's Bier, Mercedes-Benz and Airbus. But there are also wonderful manufactories in Bremen that spoil us with all kinds of products. Take a look
behind the scenes
- these are our most popular offers:
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Book now
Factory tour Mercedes-Benz
Factory tour Mercedes-Benz
Book now
'Aerospace Bremen' Guided Tour
'Aerospace Bremen' Guided Tour
Book now
Brewery Tour Freie Brau Union Bremen
Brewery Tour Freie Brau Union Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
Audio Guide Bremen
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/life-in-bremen/food-and-drink/bremen-specialties
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
Christmas Markets
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
The historic Hanseatic city of Bremen is a dazzling sight in the festive period. From a World Heritage Site illuminated by shimmering lights to a mediaeval atmosphere by the water, ice skating in the north and stylish festive shopping fun - Bremen has a lot to offer when it comes to Christmas markets. Here are a few examples.
Festive lights around the World Heritage Site
The area around the Town Hall and the Roland statue (a UNESCO World Heritage Site) is transformed into a festive wonderland. With over 170 decorated stalls, the atmospheric Bremen Christmas Market is an ideal place for a leisurely browse. It is regarded as one of Germany's finest Christmas markets. The historic setting, lovingly decorated stalls and stands, and romantic Christmas lights create a very special atmosphere that attracts increasing numbers of visitors each year.
The Christmas Market
The "Schlachte-Zauber"
"Schlachte-Zauber" on the embankment of the Weser
The River Weser turns into a hive of festive activity, with boats shimmering in the blue light at the quay and the air filled with wafting aromas of smoked fish and freshly baked bread: The "Schlachte-Zauber" will take up residence on Bremen's river promenade, bringing with it a historic, wintry and maritime atmosphere.
Book now
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Book now
Christmas time in Bremen
Christmas time in Bremen
Travel-package for two
Bremen city centre – a magical sight!
Enjoy a leisurely stroll through the historic city centre and find perfect gifts for the whole family.
The city centre is easily accessible:
- by public transport - from the "Brill", "Domsheide", "Obernstrasse" and "Schüsselkorb" stops
- by car - following the new car-park routing system to Bremen city centre (Bremer Innenstadt) car parks.
- by coach - following our coach parking scheme
Lichter der Neustadt
Christmas market meets art and culture
Findorffer Winterdorf
Most of the merchants sell only fair trade products, and many stalls offer vegan food.
You might also be interested in...
Winter
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Space Tour at Airbus
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Space Tour at Airbus
Space Tour at Airbus
How do people live, sleep, and carry out research in zero gravity? You'll find all the amazing answers at Airbus.
Bremen – Aerospace City
Bremen has been making its mark on the world of science for more than 100 years and can justifiably call itself a city of aerospace expertise. From shipbuilding and aircraft construction to space labs and rocket stages, Bremen has cemented its reputation as a home of high-tech industry.
The History of Airbus
The space age began in Bremen in 1961: It was the traditional North German companies Focke-Wulf, Hamburger Flugzeugbau and Weser Flugzeugbau that founded the 'Entwicklungsring Nord', which quickly made a name for itself in the international space industry as ERNO. Today,
Airbus
in Bremen, the successor company to ERNO, is a world-leading industrial space center for space transportation, manned space flight and space robotics. Airbus and the engineering skills at the Bremen site make major European space programs possible in the first place: projects such as the International Space Station ISS, the space laboratories Spacelab and Columbus, the automatic supply vehicle ATV, the European launch vehicle Ariane and the exploration missions to the moon and Mars are inseparably linked to the space expertise of the Airbus site in Bremen. At Airbus, space enthusiasts gain an insight into research and development in space.
Book now
Tour for Groups
Tour for Groups
You might also be interested in...
Mercedes-Benz
Look Behind the Scenes
jazzahead! - Music Fair, Symposium and Festival
Top Events in Bremen
jazzahead! - Music Fair, Symposium and Festival
jazzahead! - Music Fair, Symposium and Festival
Every spring various venues in Bremen are hosts to world-famous jazz bands and performers.
It’s jazz time in Bremen, as the city once again plays host to bands, performers and fans at a major festival which runs from 24th to 27th April 2025. 40 bands are selected by a panel of judges to showcase their act to the public.
Where & When
April 24th to April 27th, 2025
Various venues
jazzahead
Particular partner countries
In the two weeks leading up to this rendezvous for the international jazz scene, which forms the basis for the jazzahead! festival across Bremen, there is always a focus on the culture of one particular partner country.
Rent a bike and (jazz)ahead
Get around the jazzahead! festival with the help of BIKE IT. A combination of GPS and bike rental is the quick and easy way to reach the festival events. A special programme for bike enthusiasts organised by the Bremen branch of the German Cyclists’ Federation (ADFC) offers plenty of variety with three guided concert cycling tours. The Bike Citizens app reliably directs you through the night. This specialised cycle navigation system knows all the venues of the jazzahead! clubnight and the best ways to get there.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Coffee Stores and Roasteries in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Coffee Stores and Roasteries in Bremen
Coffee Stores and Roasteries in Bremen
Looking for the perfect bean? You'll find it in these Bremen coffee shops. Want to buy your own roasted coffee? Then you're sure to find what you're looking for in our tips.
For the ultimate coffee enjoyment at home, we have picked out some insider tips on where you can buy really good coffee beans processed in Bremen.
Our tips also include some shops that roast their own coffee.
You should definitely get to know these special coffee shops, coffee shops and coffee roasters!
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Büchlers Beste Bohne
If you prefer individuality, you will be a fan of the store of the Bremer Kaffeegesellschaft.
Contigo
At Contigo you can get products from all over the world. In addition to tea, chocolate and organic products, you can buy high-quality and fair-trade coffee.
Kaffee-Rösterei Hemken
Here you will find coffee and tea specialities from all over the world.
Coffee-Bike
It scores with mobility, environmental friendliness and quality.
Slokoffie
Enjoy a sustainable cup of coffee at Slokoffie.
Kassiopeia
Kassiopeia is the oldest company in Bremen that is still managed by its founders.
Cross Coffee
Whether espresso, filter coffee, chocolate flavor or a fruity taste – coffee lovers will find what they are looking for at Cross Coffee.
Holtorfs Heimathaven
Er gilt als Deutschlands letzter Kolonialwarenladen - Holtorfs Heimathaven im Bremen Viertel.
Johann Jacob Haus
Since 2020 you can get freshly roasted coffee at the Johann Jacob Haus in the city center of Bremen.
Lloyd Caffee
Since 1930 Lloyd Caffee produces exclusive coffee delicacies.
Münchhausen Kaffee
Münchhausen Kaffee looks back on 75 years of tradition and history.
Union Rösterei
Above the old Union Brewery, the Union Roastery roasts its coffee delicacies.
Cross Coffee
At Cross Coffee, you can discover freshly roasted and special coffee-blends that are produced away from traditional small-scale roasting techniques.
Dieckmann Aroma Coffee
Since 2002 Dieckmann Aroma Coffee produces coffee delicacies in the Überseestadt.
Kaffee & Tee Hemken
After opening in 1951, the company initially served as a mail order business.
de koffiemann
For more than 40 years, de koffiemann has been roasting coffee in a traditional and gentle way in Lilienthal.
Johann Jacob Haus
Right in the heart of Bremen, you will find the Johann Jacobs Haus with its own coffee roastery.
Glücksbohne
Glücksbohne is a coffee roastery in the heart of Bremen's neighbourhood that serves exquisite coffee and espresso of the best possible quality.
Azul Kaffee
Coffee from all over the world is made with love here.
You might also be interested in...
Cafés in Bremen
Tea from Bremen
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Accessible Visit
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
As a city of short distances, Bremen is easily accessible for all.
You want to spend your vacation in the Hanseatic city? We warmly welcome you. Here you will find some information to experience Bremen barrier-free. We are looking forward to your questions and suggestions.
You can discover these sights in Bremen
Schnoor Quarter
Another popular place is the
Schnoor Quarter
, Bremen's oldest neighborhood.
Note on accessibility:
Please note that the Schnoor, with old cobblestones and curbs, has limited accessibility. The alleys are sometimes very narrow. Some stores in the old houses have steps at the entrance.
City tours for people with disabilities
Offers from "Bremen Tourism"
"Bremen Tourism" offers a wide range of different tours, sightseeing tours and city walks. Here you get personal advice and trained city guides. For example, "
A sensual journey through time on Böttcherstraße
" is an offer only for visually impaired and blind people. The
team of "Bremen Tourismus"
is looking forward to your inquiries.
The bus for the daily city tours has two wheelchair places. The "City Tour" heads for destinations such as the former harbor area. Other stops include Überseestadt and the Weser Stadium.
More information and contact details for the "City Tour Bremen" sightseeing tour.
Another option for discovering the city center on the move is the "Stadtmusikanten-Express". The small electric bus starts in front of the Kontorhaus at the corner of Marktplatz and Langenstraße. Then it goes past the market square, to the Weser promenade "Schlachte" and the Wall. Of course, you will also see the Schnoor quarter and the Culture Mile.
More information about the city center tour with the "Stadtmusikanten-Express".
City tours in sign language
Trained city guides - three "native signers" - offer city tours through Bremen for deaf tourists. Hearing people who are signers can also take part in the tour.
Special requests for the city tour can be directed to
stadtfuehrung@villa-bremen.de
. If you need a spoken language interpreter, please inquire about the extra charge for this at the Landesverband der Gehörlosen e.V. at
dolmetscher@lvg-bremen.de
.
General information:
8,50 € per person (min. 10 persons).
If the group is less than 10 persons, please ask for the price at stadtfuehrung@villa-bremen.de.
Duration: 2 hours
Meeting point: Bremen Roland
Language: German sign language and international sign language
Limited number of groups: 15 persons
City model for blind people
The model to touch makes the architecture of Bremen's old town tangible for blind people. On the east side of the Bremen Parliament and next to the attraction "Bremen Hole" is a bronze model of Bremen's old town. It offers people with and without visual impairments a nice overview of the city center. The model is wheelchair-accessible and depicts the houses and streets at a scale of 1:750. The bronze is the work of artist Felix Brörken, who spent months handcrafting the miniature cities.
Accessible accommodations in Bremen
Here you will find a selection of business entries of hotels in Bremen. If you click on a business entry, you will get, among other things, detailed information about accessibility:
InterCityHotel Bremen
Holiday Inn Express Bremen Airport
7THINGS - my basic hotel
INNSiDE by Meliá Bremen
Hotel Munte am Stadtwald
ATLANTIC Grand Hotel Bremen
Steigenberger Hotel Bremen
Radisson Blu Hotel
Maritim Hotel und Congress-Centrum Bremen
Please contact the team of Bremen Tourism directly for all further questions.
Phone: 0421 - 30 800 10
E-mail:
info@bremen-tourism.de
Map of accessible toilets (only in German)
Tourist information office
Wheelchair hire
Even though Bremen is a compact city, it can still take a long time to make your way around it because there is so much to see. If you struggle to get around on foot, you can borrow a wheelchair free of charge from the
tourist information office
on Böttcherstrasse. All we request is a refundable deposit of €50 and a copy of your ID card or passport.
Specifications:
Seat width 48cm, seat depth 42cm
Backrest height 43cm, seat height 50cm
Max. 130kg body weight
Incl. drum brakes for use by companion or carer
Barrier-free city guide (only in German)
The city guide barrier-free Bremen is a database for people with impairments. It provides reliable data on the accessibility and usability of many facilities in Bremen.
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Accessible Visit
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
As a city of short distances, Bremen is easily accessible for all.
You want to spend your vacation in the Hanseatic city? We warmly welcome you. Here you will find some information to experience Bremen barrier-free. We are looking forward to your questions and suggestions.
You can discover these sights in Bremen
Schnoor Quarter
Another popular place is the
Schnoor Quarter
, Bremen's oldest neighborhood.
Note on accessibility:
Please note that the Schnoor, with old cobblestones and curbs, has limited accessibility. The alleys are sometimes very narrow. Some stores in the old houses have steps at the entrance.
City tours for people with disabilities
Offers from "Bremen Tourism"
"Bremen Tourism" offers a wide range of different tours, sightseeing tours and city walks. Here you get personal advice and trained city guides. For example, "
A sensual journey through time on Böttcherstraße
" is an offer only for visually impaired and blind people. The
team of "Bremen Tourismus"
is looking forward to your inquiries.
The bus for the daily city tours has two wheelchair places. The "City Tour" heads for destinations such as the former harbor area. Other stops include Überseestadt and the Weser Stadium.
More information and contact details for the "City Tour Bremen" sightseeing tour.
Another option for discovering the city center on the move is the "Stadtmusikanten-Express". The small electric bus starts in front of the Kontorhaus at the corner of Marktplatz and Langenstraße. Then it goes past the market square, to the Weser promenade "Schlachte" and the Wall. Of course, you will also see the Schnoor quarter and the Culture Mile.
More information about the city center tour with the "Stadtmusikanten-Express".
City tours in sign language
Trained city guides - three "native signers" - offer city tours through Bremen for deaf tourists. Hearing people who are signers can also take part in the tour.
Special requests for the city tour can be directed to
stadtfuehrung@villa-bremen.de
. If you need a spoken language interpreter, please inquire about the extra charge for this at the Landesverband der Gehörlosen e.V. at
dolmetscher@lvg-bremen.de
.
General information:
8,50 € per person (min. 10 persons).
If the group is less than 10 persons, please ask for the price at stadtfuehrung@villa-bremen.de.
Duration: 2 hours
Meeting point: Bremen Roland
Language: German sign language and international sign language
Limited number of groups: 15 persons
City model for blind people
The model to touch makes the architecture of Bremen's old town tangible for blind people. On the east side of the Bremen Parliament and next to the attraction "Bremen Hole" is a bronze model of Bremen's old town. It offers people with and without visual impairments a nice overview of the city center. The model is wheelchair-accessible and depicts the houses and streets at a scale of 1:750. The bronze is the work of artist Felix Brörken, who spent months handcrafting the miniature cities.
Accessible accommodations in Bremen
Here you will find a selection of business entries of hotels in Bremen. If you click on a business entry, you will get, among other things, detailed information about accessibility:
InterCityHotel Bremen
Holiday Inn Express Bremen Airport
7THINGS - my basic hotel
INNSiDE by Meliá Bremen
Hotel Munte am Stadtwald
ATLANTIC Grand Hotel Bremen
Steigenberger Hotel Bremen
Radisson Blu Hotel
Maritim Hotel und Congress-Centrum Bremen
Please contact the team of Bremen Tourism directly for all further questions.
Phone: 0421 - 30 800 10
E-mail:
info@bremen-tourism.de
Map of accessible toilets (only in German)
Tourist information office
Wheelchair hire
Even though Bremen is a compact city, it can still take a long time to make your way around it because there is so much to see. If you struggle to get around on foot, you can borrow a wheelchair free of charge from the
tourist information office
on Böttcherstrasse. All we request is a refundable deposit of €50 and a copy of your ID card or passport.
Specifications:
Seat width 48cm, seat depth 42cm
Backrest height 43cm, seat height 50cm
Max. 130kg body weight
Incl. drum brakes for use by companion or carer
Barrier-free city guide (only in German)
The city guide barrier-free Bremen is a database for people with impairments. It provides reliable data on the accessibility and usability of many facilities in Bremen.
Experience Bremen at Home - Digital Impressions of the City
Home
Tourism
Experience Bremen at home
Experience Bremen at Home
Immerse yourself in the diverse Hanseatic city with numerous digital experiences!
Would you like to discover the most beautiful corners of Bremen from home, visit our parlour from your couch or take a stroll through the winding Schnoor? Would you like to take a virtual tour of the museums and knowledge worlds or sail on the Weser? Then click through our collection of digital offers about our beautiful Hanseatic city, get in the mood for your next visit to Bremen or reminisce.
Guided Visit of the Bremen City Centre
Take a look behind the doors of the town hall or stroll through the market square from the comfort of your sofa. The camera follows the Bremen professional for you and you are taken to particularly interesting corners of the city. Have fun with a tour of the cosy kind..
Bremen in 360 Degrees
Let your eyes wander - we invite you to take a virtual look around various corners of Bremen. Discover the
town hall
from the inside, Bremen's
market square
, the winding alleys in the
Schnoor district
or Bremen's secret main street, the unique
Böttcherstraße
.
An Interior View of the Town Hall in 360 degrees
A View of the Schnoorviertel in 360 Degrees
A View of Böttcherstraße in 360 Degrees
Museums Digital
Join us on a virtual discovery tour through Bremen's museums and worlds of knowledge!
The Carillon of Böttcherstraße for your Home
On a virtual keyboard, you can make the 30 Meissen porcelain bells ring out. Have fun!
City by the River
Come with us to the Weser. The river flows like a lifeline through the middle of Bremen and shapes the Hanseatic city's attitude to life in a very special way. Stroll along the banks of the
Schlachte
and enjoy a variety of delicacies in the adjacent beer gardens. And on a
Weser cruise
you can sail along the promenade towards
Überseestadt and the industrial harbours
.
Bremen's Culinary Delights
The finest chocolate, sweets, liqueurs or fair-trade products - you can literally let Bremen melt in your mouth even when you're far away. Numerous
sweet delicacies
and
liquid delights
, such as craft beer or aromatic coffees, are produced or processed in Bremen. The Bremen products are often available in the respective online shops and thus find their way directly to your home.
A Look Behind the Scenes
Take a
look behind the scenes
with us. We'll take you on a short tour of the
Beck's brewery
and stroll with you through Schuppen Eins - Bremen's centre for automotive culture and mobility. You'll find out how
sweet delicacies
are made at the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
and how
Lloyd Caffee
gets the best out of the bean.
Pure Nature
Bremen is one of the greenest cities in the country. The
Bürgerpark
is like a green lung in the centre of Bremen. The
Rhododendron Park
is home to the second largest collection of rhododendrons in the world. In
autumn
, Bremen's nature is particularly colourful. Take a chance and have a look!
Events All Year Round
Plan your trip to Bremen around one of the city's many event highlights. As soon as the sweet smells of popcorn and roasted almonds float over Bremen's Bürgerweide and adrenaline-fuelled screams fill the air, it's time for the
Freimarkt
, the fifth season in the Hanseatic city. Experience the whole thing virtually right now. Along the Weser promenade Schlachte, the
Maritime Week
takes place every year in September. Learn interesting facts about maritime topics or marvel at the arts and crafts on offer. The
Christmas market and Schlachte magic
are known beyond the borders of Bremen. Come with us on a virtual stroll. The
Osterwiese
is the little brother of the Freimarkt. Over 200 rides and stalls offer lots of fun and culinary delights. Get a first impression. In summer, the
Breminale
attracts visitors to the Osterdeich. Lots of music, dance, art and culture await you at the cultural festival on the Weser.
You might also be interested in...
Experience Bremerhaven Online
Browse the Bremen Blog
Culture and Events
Planning and Booking your Trip
Studi Life - Tips for living on & off campus
Home
Education
Studying
Studi-Life
Studi-Life
Tips for life on and off campus!
More and more students are deciding to complete their studies in Bremen. This is certainly due to the diversity of the university location. A wide range of subjects, good conditions on campus and an environment of renowned research institutions create the conditions for a successful academic career. But Bremen also has a number of advantages outside of university life. Comparatively favourable rents, a varied nightlife, culture, green spaces and much more make up the quality of life in Bremen. Summarised here are some tips for your student life in Bremen.
Accommodation for Students
Addresses & Links to help you find Acommodation
Leisure Time
There's always something going on
In Bremen, there is more than just spring, summer, autumn and winter. The
Freimarkt
is known here as the fifth season. But it's not just in October that there's a lot going on in our Hanseatic city - the
Osterwiese
,
Breminale
,
Christmas Markets
and many other events await you. Find out more about the
Top Events in Bremen
!
Saving Money
Looking for a Part-Time Job?
Sustainable Activities in Bremen
Schwarzes Brett
Bremens Online Marketplace
Study Successfully
Vegetarian and Vegan Food
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Going Out
You might also be interested in...
Free and Outdoors
Tips for free, outdoor fun throughout the year in Bremen
Culture
Universities and Colleges in Bremen
Worpswede - Excursion - Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Excursions
Worpswede
Worpswede
Work of Art - Landscape - Place to Live
The world-famous artists' village of Worpswede is just under 30 kilometres from Bremen. Once home to Heinrich Vogeler and Paula Modersohn-Becker, it still attracts numerous artists and art lovers today.
Art is at Home in Worpswede
The picturesque artists' village of Worpswede is nestled in the Teufelsmoor (Devil's Moor) and became world-famous thanks to the artists' colony founded in 1889. At the foot of the imposing 54 metre high Weyerberg, the town not only offers a fascinating cultural landscape, but also impressive sights. Once home to Heinrich Vogeler and Paula Modersohn-Becker, it still attracts numerous artists and art lovers today.
Experience Art up Close
Worpswede is home to six museums that take you on a rich journey through the town's art history. The Barkenhoff, the Große Kunstschau Worpswede, the Haus im Schluh and the Worpsweder Kunsthalle - united in the Worpswede Museum Association - as well as the so-called Käseglocke and the Museum am Modersohn-Haus present works from the founding generation to the present day. In addition, galleries and studios show works by old masters as well as contemporary artists. Local museums and museum complexes are also dedicated to the local peat culture.
Teufelsmoor near Worpswede
Teufelsmoor
is an ideal destination for a trip to the countryside – by bike, e-bike, canoe, Moor Express or peat barge. Nature lovers will enjoy a tour of the moorlands, while the culturally minded are well-served by Worpswede's museums. The region is a cyclist's paradise and lies within easy reach of Bremen, for example via the 'Weites Land' and 'Vom Teufelsmoor zum Wattenmeer' cycle routes.
Website of Worpswede
Impressions of Worpswede
The Experience of Unspoilt Countryside
The unique nature around Worpswede invites you to take long bike tours and walks. The landscape is characterised by wide meadows and fields as well as rivers and small streams. Protected areas still give you an impression of the original moorland landscape, which was a favourite motif for the old Worpswede masters. A trip on a peat barge is a particularly special experience, where you can follow in the footsteps of former peat boatmen and discover the Teufelsmoor.
Excursions from Bremen
Long-Distance Cycle Routes in and around Bremen
Which long-distance cycle routes lead to or pass through Bremen?
Bremen Tourism - Customer Advisory and Sales
Home
Tourism
Service
Customer Advisory and Sales
Bremen Tourism - Customer Advisory and Sales
Available for you by phone and online: The Team of Bremen Tourism will be happy to advise you about your stay in Bremen.
Here you will receive competent and friendly advice, up-to-date information on events and you can plan and book your city trip to Bremen. Choose from a wide range of hotels, hotel packages and travel components such as tickets and admissions.
Mon–Fri 8.30am–5pm
Sat 9am–12pm
Our service for you
Or email us at:
info@bremen-tourism.de
We provide accurate and friendly advice, up-to-date event information, itinerary planning and booking for your city break to Bremen.
Excellent telephone service – we won’t keep you waiting.
Always happy to share our knowledge with you – free of charge.
Friendly and efficient staff.
A fast, reliable service. All enquiries received by midday will be answered the same day. Customised offers for groups ready within 24 hours.
Gift vouchers
The perfect gift for any occasion – a gift voucher to discover Bremen!
Tourist information office
Info, guided tours & tickets
Accommodation
Let yourself be inspired for your overnight stay in Bremen.
Brochures
Lots of information for your trip to Bremen.
Experience Bremen Newsletter
Get the latest information and insider tips from us about the city on the Weser.
ERGO Travel Insurance
Our tip: Take a safe holiday - cancellation without risk. We recommend the products of our partner
ERGO Travel insurance
so that you can be reimbursed for any financial losses in the event of cancellation or interruption of your holiday due to illness, accident or unemployment - even within the family.
Bremen's Historic Market Square
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen's Historic Market Square
Bremen's Historic Market Square
Bremen's market square is not only one of the oldest public squares in the city, but also one of the most beautiful. Surrounded by many buildings worth seeing, you shouldn't miss this gem in the heart of the city!
Bremen's market square is considered one of the most beautiful in Europe. Where once there was lively trade, events such as the Christmas market or the "Kleiner Freimarkt" (small open-air market) invite you to socialise on a total area of 3,484 square metres, while the many adjacent buildings are not only popular photo motifs, but also want to be discovered by you. A particularly interesting eye-catcher is the town hall, which together with Bremen's Roland statue is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. But St. Peter's Cathedral, the Bürgerschaft (State Parliament) and Schütting also have an exciting story to tell.
Overview of the buildings on Bremen's market square
The Hanseatic Cross
You may notice the distinctive paving on Bremen's market square. Here you can see a Hanseatic cross that was originally emblazoned on the flags of the Hanseatic Legion. The Hanseatic Legion was made up of citizens from Bremen, Hamburg and Lübeck and fought together in the wars of liberation from 1813 to 1815. The cross, which is paved in red and measures 4.8 metres in diameter, is a reminder of this legion.
Hole of Bremen (Bremer Loch)
You hear animal voices on the market square? Barking, crows, cock-a-doodle-do or IA cries can be heard alternately from the so-called
Bremer Loch - Hole of Bremen
. The reason: a manhole cover next to the Bürgerschaft has been converted into a donation box. If you insert a coin, you will receive the sound of one of the four town musicians as a reward. The coins are donated to the Wilhelm-Kaisen-Bürgerhilfe for its social projects.
Book now
Guided tour of the town hall
Guided tour of the town hall
Discover the UNESCO World Heritage Site from the inside and learn more about the magnificent building
Bronze model of Bremen's old town
On the east side of the Bremen Parliament you will find a bronze model of Bremen's old town. It offers a nice overview of the city centre. A special feature: visually impaired and blind people can use this replica to feel the architecture around the market square and receive additional information in Braille.
The Ratskeller
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities from Knipp to Labskaus and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you in
Bremen's Ratskeller.
Dive into the exciting vaults beneath Bremen's town hall.
Book now
Guided City Tour
Guided City Tour
Book now
Guided tour through the Ratskeller
Guided tour through the Ratskeller
Discover Numerous other sights from the market square
As you have already learned, many of Bremen's interesting highlights are located directly on the market square itself. In addition, many other sights are only a stone's throw away from here. The famous Town Musicians can be found on the west side of the town hall, the entrance to Böttcherstraße is right next to the Schütting, while the winding Schnoor is also just a few minutes' walk away. Here are some inspirations for your discovery tour from the market square.
You might also be interested in...
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Guided Tours & Trips
Enjoy an entertaining and informative tour accompanied by a guide.
Knoops Park
Home
Living
Parks and Green Spaces
Knoops Park
Knoops Park
From country estate then to park for everyone today
Between Lesum and the street "Auf dem Hohen Ufer" lies Knoops Park, a garden complex from the 19th century. The historic park is particularly suitable for long walks to marvel at its well-tended plant stands. Every year, the Sommer in Lesmona enlivens the park with classical music.
The Park's History
In 1859, the Bremen industrialist Ludwig Knoop bought the "Mühlenthal" estate, where he spent the summer months with his family from 1861 to 1868. A few years later he had Mühlenthal Castle built in the English Tudor style and lived there with his family from then on. He commissioned the famous landscape designer Wilhelm Benque, to whom Bremen also owes the Bürgerpark, to design its green spaces. In the extensive landscape park, Benque created effective contrasts with viewing platforms in the style of Italian Renaissance gardens. In 1936, the property became the property of the city. A life-size bronze statue of the former founder - made by artist Claus Homfeld - commemorates its creation.
Strolls and Classical Music Festival
Thanks to constant maintenance and expansion, visitors to the park can now admire carefully planted plants and trees on around seven kilometres of walking paths. The park's own children's playground is located directly on the banks of the Lesum. The park itself hosts the annual classical music festival Sommer in Lesmona as part of the Lesum Culture Days. Current dates, events and guided tours of the park can be found on the homepage of the Knoops Park Association.
You might also be interested in...
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
Vegesack
Culture and Events
Maritim Hotel und Congress-Centrum Bremen
Weser Beach by Café Sand Bremen
Weser Beach by Café Sand Bremen
The Weser beach is the place to be in the heart of Bremen when it's getting hot outside.
A sandy beach in the heart of Bremen – you'd better believe it! Café Sand and its beach are only 15 minutes' walk from the market square. There is a direct ferry connection from the Viertel to this sandy stretch along the Weser.
Café Sand
Official Website
Sun worshippers can work on their tan here, and kids will love building sand castles. There's nothing quite like feeling the heat of the sand as you watch the pleasure boats cruising by on the Weser river or cheer on the rowers and dragon boat racers.
You might also be interested in...
Best Views in Bremen
Day Trips to the North Sea Coast
Take a boat trip out to Helgoland, set sail on the sea or gaze at gargantuan cruise ships.
Werder Bremen - the Pride of the City
Home
Living
Sports
Werder Bremen
Werder Bremen - the Pride of the City
Here is the most important information about our Green-White Club and the WESERSTADION.
This historic football club based on the banks of the Weser river is as much a symbol of Bremen as the Town Musicians, the Roland statue and the town hall. On both the domestic and European stage the green and whites have met with a great deal of success over the decades, winning four league championships, six DFB cups and the 1992 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup. What's more, Werder Bremen are ranked second in the all-time Bundesliga table. Many great players have worn the famous shirt with the diamond W logo. And although year after year hundreds and thousands of fans flock to the stadium to cheer on their team, Werder Bremen still feels like a family club.
WESERSTADION
'Green and white forever' – the home of Werder Bremen!
Werder Bremen Fan Shop
You'll find the complete range of Werder Bremen memorabilia at the club's fantastic fan shop.
www.werder.de/en
Official website of Werder Bremen
Directions to the Werder Match
Book now
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. Club Museum
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. Club Museum
Guided Tour for Groups
This might also interest you
Wuseum
Swimming in Bremen
Seasonal Tips: Spring, Summer, Autumn & Winter in Bremen
Home
Living
Seasonal Tips
Tips for every Season in Bremen
Enjoy spring, summer, autumn and winter in Bremen!
All four seasons offer a variety of events, pleasures and experiences in Bremen. Learn more about the different facets of the seasons in Bremen and find the right activities and tips for you.
Spring
The days are getting longer and the first warm hours invite you to outdoor activities. Our suggestions are sure to get you in the mood for spring!
Summer
Summer is just around the corner and our beautiful Bremen is ready to show you its best side! Bremen has numerous spots and activities in store for you that promise pure variety. Let yourself be inspired and surprised by the diversity of Bremen's summer!
Autumn
The low sun of the golden season bathes Bremen in a very special light. Enjoy the autumn on the Weser and let yourself be enchanted by the atmosphere and the many possibilities of the city.
Winter
The days are getting shorter, the temperatures are dropping - winter is coming to Bremen. Christmas is fast approaching. But even aside from the Advent and Christmas season, winter in Bremen has its own special charm. Enjoy the cosiness of the dark season, let yourself be enchanted by winter landscapes, feast and relax or use grey days for fun and games in the dry.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Bremen for Cyclists – Tips and Info for your Cycling Holiday
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Cyclists
Cycling Holidays in Bremen
Discover the historic Hanseatic city on your bike: we have all the tips and offers you need.
Bremen is a compact city where the bicycle is more than just a means of transport: it's a way of life. What's more, our Hanseatic city is linked to a number of long-distance cycle routes, making it a perfect destination for your next cycling holiday. Let us inspire you!
Is it really possible to discover an entire Federal State by bike?
In Bremen you can do just that! A bicycle is the perfect way of getting to know the "two-town state". The City Centre circuit in Bremen and the Bremerhaven circuit bring you to the main tourist attractions in the two sister-towns. A 91-kilometre section of the Weser Cycle Way links them together. If the journey from Bremen to Bremerhaven or vice versa is too far for you, you can also travel from A to B by ship or train, and take your bike with you.
Tips and Offers
We've gathered together the most important tips and some exciting offers to help you get the most out of your cycling holiday in Bremen. You'll also find information and special offers in our
Bike information package
(Stadt-Land-Rad). Order one today and start planning your cycling adventure in and around Bremen.
Book now
The Best Hotels for your Cycling Holiday
The Best Hotels for your Cycling Holiday
Stadt-Land-Rad (City, Countryside, Cycle) Information Pack
Flyers & Brochures
Book now
Discover Bremen by Bike
Discover Bremen by Bike
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Long-distance cycle routes from and through Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Bike Tours & Packages
Guided Cycle Tours
Bike Citizens App
The easy and convenient way to follow exciting bike tours.
Planning and Booking your Trip
Water Sports in Bremen
Active on and in the Water
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Contact and Legal Information
Home
Contact
Contact and Legal Information
bremen.de is the official website of the City Municipality of Bremen.
Contacting Bremen Tourismus
Do you have questions, suggestions, praise, criticism about tourist topics or bookable offers?
Tel:
Mon-Fri 8am-6pm, Sat 9.30am-noon
Email:
info@bremen-tourism.de
Visit us in Bremen:
Tourist Information Office
at Böttcherstraße 4
Contacting the City of Bremen
For general enquiries about the City Municipality of Bremen, please get in touch with the city's administrative offices
(0421 361 0)
. Unfortunately, bremen.de is unable to provide data about the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen.
Legal information
bremen.de is the official website of the City Municipality of Bremen. It provides a wide range of services for citizens, tourists and workers. This website is run by Bremen Online, a department of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH. The pages for the various city and state authorities are organised by the Senator of Finance and Mayor of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen. These pages constitute
the official website of the federal state
.
Bremen Online is responsible for the administration and efficiency of this online directory. The company has editorial responsibility for content, as well as for adverts and products on bremen.de.
The 'Tourism' portal is jointly administered by the department Bremen Tourism and Bremen Online.
Company information
Bremen Online - Eine Abteilung der WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH
Ansgaritorstraße 11
D-28195 Bremen
Telephone: 0421 - 9600 - 810
E-Mail:
info@bremen.de
NB: Please note that these contact details are for bremen.online, and not for the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen. We are unfortunately unable to deal with queries related to the City Municipality of Bremen. For general enquires regarding the City Municipality of Bremen, please phone the city's administration offices (0421 361 0).
The WFB Bremen Economic Development GmbH
(WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH) and its subsidiary, the Bremen Bank for Economic Expansion (Bremer Aufbau-Bank GmbH), is the state of Bremen’s central service provider for regional and business development.
The WFB Bremen Economic Development GmbH
(WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH) is domiciled in Bremen and is registered in the Commercial Register at the Bremen District Court under no. HRB 3354.
VAT ID number: DE114413816
WFB Bremen Economic Development GmbH (WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH)
Ansgaritorstraße 11
D-28195 Bremen
Email:
mail@wfb-bremen.de
The following have power of representation: Andreas Heyer (CEO), Oliver Rau
Board of Directors:
Andreas Heyer (CEO), Oliver Rau
Technology and Design
Our website is hosted by
Globalways AG
Development and web design
i/i/d
Institut für Integriertes Design an der Hochschule für Künste Bremen
Content Management System (CMS)
SIX Offene Systeme GmbH, Stuttgart
Payment methods
Mollie B.V.
Keizersgracht 126
1015CW Amsterdam
Niederlande.
USt - IdNr NL81.58.39.091.B01
Amsterdam, 302.04.462
Handelsregister Amsterdam, 302.04.462
The management of Mollie B.V.
Director / Chief Executive Officer
Shane Happach - Director / Chief Executive Officer
Director / Chief Financial Risk Officer
Joe Katz - Director / Chief Financial Risk Officer
Director / Chief Legal Compliance Officer
Célie Verstelle - Director / Chief Legal Compliance Officer
Bremen Information - Tourist Information Office
Home
Tourism
Service
Tourist Information Office
Bremen Information - Tourist Information Office
The Tourist information office is your personal point of contact in Bremen. Drop in and see us!
If you're looking for a reminder of your trip to Bremen, we stock a good selection of souvenirs, including books about Bremen, T-shirts, postcards, mugs, Bremen Town Musician soft toys and lots more.
Opening times
Mon - Fr: 9.00 am - 6.00 pm
Sat: 9.30 am - 5 pm
Sun: 10 am - 4 pm
Visit our city-centre Tourist information office in
Böttcherstrasse 4
(Glockenspiel house), close to the market square and the famous
Bremen Town Musicians
. The popular guided walks start on our doorstep.
What awaits you on site
Our Tourist information team not only give you plenty of handy tips, they also offer lots more:
Tourist information about Bremen
Brochures
and event listings
Information about the arts, shopping, restaurants and cafés
Hotel reservations
at up-to-the-minute rates
Booking service for guided tours
of the city, tours of the town hall, sightseeing tours and riverboat cruises
Tickets for museums and events
BremenCARD
(discovery card) on sale
Audio guides for hire (in German, English, Italian or Spanish)
Souvenirs
Wheelchair hire
Even though Bremen is a compact city, it can still take a long time to make your way around it because there is so much to see. If you struggle to get around on foot, you can borrow a wheelchair free of charge from
the tourist information office. All we request is a refundable deposit of €50 and a copy of your ID card or passport.
Specifications:
Seat width 48cm, seat depth 42cm
Backrest height 43cm, seat height 50cm
Max. 130kg body weight
Incl. drum brakes for use by companion or carer
You might also be interested in...
Customer Advisory and Sales
We are your local partner and we will help you plan your trip.
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur - Candy Manufactory
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur - Candy Manufactory
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur - Candy Manufactory
Watch candy artisans at work, at Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur.
There is a hustle and bustle in Böttcherstrasse and Schnoor: through the windows of the Bonbon Manufaktur you can look directly into the manufactory where the candy is being cooked. Step inside and enter the world of sweets
.
Sweet Delights in Böttcherstraße
Visitors to the Handwerkerhof craft centre in
Bremen's Böttcherstrasse
are greeted by a wonderful sweet smell – this is where Bremen Bonbon Manufaktur is based. You can watch the sweet makers at work through a large window facing the yard, and if you are lucky you might even get to try a warm sweet. This quaint shop is pure heaven for anyone with a sweet tooth.
The sweets, with colourful and typically Bremen names such as Schwarzer Roland, Digge Mülch and Quarkbüdel, can be bought in the shop, and you are more than welcome to try all the various types and flavours.
More Candy in the Schnoor Quarter
You can also browse for sweet treats in Bremen's oldest quarter – the
Schnoor
. Marterburg 30 is the location of the Schnoor branch of Bremen Bonbon Manufaktur. As well as watching the confectioners at work in the generously proportioned show kitchen, you can step behind the counter yourself and make your own sweets. Workshops give you the chance to knead, shape and colour lollies, candy canes and all kinds of other treats as you learn about the art of sweet production. Participants can also create sweets in their favourite colours and flavours at children's birthday parties and corporate events.
Exclusively at the Schnoor branch, you can watch the confectioners make English-style fudge. New flavours are constantly being created for this soft confection that is made by hand from the finest ingredients. In addition, the shop's long shelves are packed with popular sweets, creamy caramels and confections of all description.
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Blog
Schnoor quarter
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Culinary Bremen
Free and Outdoors - Activities and Events in Bremen
Home
Living
Free and Outdoors - Activities and Events in Bremen
Free and Outdoors - Activities and Events in Bremen
Free events and offers in Bremen throughout the year
True to the motto "free and outdoors", we have put together events and offers in Bremen with precisely these characteristics for you. The offers range from open-air concerts, music and street festivals to cultural events - all of which are free and open-air.
You might also be interested in...
Bar Meets Culture
Freimarkt
The popular fun fair.
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Tickets for Tours and Sights in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Booking
Tours and Tickets
Tickets for Tours and Sights in Bremen
Here you can book the most popular tours and tickets!
When you're in Bremen, there are plenty of experiences waiting for you. Explore the different sides of the Hanseatic City on a guided tour. Our offer is as diverse as the city itself. Whether it's a factory tour, a culinary tour or a visit to the museum, we have tickets and offers for you.
Our most popular offers
Book now
Guided City Tour
Guided City Tour
Book now
Guided Tour of Town Hall
Guided Tour of Town Hall
Book now
Tour with the Nightwatchman
Tour with the Nightwatchman
Book now
Tickets for Museums, Botanika, Universum and more
Tickets for Museums, Botanika, Universum and more
Gift Vouchers - Book Directly Online
A Bremen Experience to give away, what a nice Idea!
Behind the Scenes
Bremen is the brand capital - this includes names like Beck's Bier, Mercedes-Benz and Airbus. But there are also wonderful manufactories in Bremen that spoil us with all kinds of products. Take a look
behind the scenes
- these are our most popular offers:
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Book now
Factory tour Mercedes-Benz
Factory tour Mercedes-Benz
Book now
'Aerospace Bremen' Guided Tour
'Aerospace Bremen' Guided Tour
Book now
Brewery Tour Freie Brau Union Bremen
Brewery Tour Freie Brau Union Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
Audio Guide Bremen
Must-See Sights in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Must-See Sights in Bremen
You' re on the lookout for the top sights in Bremen? Well, you've come to the right place! We'll tell you which spots should definitely be on your bucket list.
Bremen offers you many sights – the Town Musicians and the UNESCO World Heritage town hall are certainly among the most popular. But did you know that Bremen is also a city of science? You can find out how astronauts live in the International Space Station or sit and tremble on the earthquake sofa at Universum Bremen. Or perhaps you would like to venture into the world of shipbuilding or explore the pretty narrow lanes of the Schnoor quarter? We have put together a list of eleven highlights that are not to be missed while visiting Bremen.
The Bremen Town Musicians
Donkey, dog, cat and rooster belong to Bremen like the Weser. And they literally accompany you wherever you go in the historical city centre. The most famous figure of the
Bremen Town Musicians
- a bronze statue by Gerhard Marcks - can be found on the west side of the
town hall
. It's easy to spot the numerous visitors waiting in line to take hold of the donkey's front legs. After all, that's supposed to bring good luck! A little further on, directly in front of the
Bremen Parliament
, the voices of the four animals resound from the ground at the '
Bremer Loch'
for a good cause. And at the Sieben-Faulen-Brunnen in
Böttcherstraße
you will discover one of many other editions of the famous quartet scattered throughout the city.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Bremen's pride and joy is the ensemble of the
town hall and Roland statue
, which UNESCO has included on its World Heritage List in 2014. The duo is beautifully presented on the north-east side of Bremen's
market square
and stands for democracy and freedom in a unique way. Since it was built in 1405, the town hall has been the seat of municipal self-government and the state government, while Roland, installed in 1404, has always symbolised the rights and privileges of the Hanseatic city. It is well worth a visit! Roland will gladly hold still for a photo with you and the town hall is not only an absolute eye-catcher from the outside. The doors of the magnificent building are also open to you on interesting
guided tours
or during a visit to the unique
Ratskeller
.
Book now
Town Hall: Guided Tour
Town Hall: Guided Tour
Discover the historic building!
The Schnoor
The old town quarter of
Schnoor
is a beautiful network of streets that is demonstrably one of the
'coolest in the world'
. The old town quarter owes its name "Schnoor" to the Low German word for "string", and there's no better way to describe this lovingly restored district: Here, small, colourful houses and shops line up like pearls on a string, along alleys so narrow that you can touch both sides with outstretched arms. When visiting Bremen, a stroll through the Schnoor is a must! Besides wonderful souvenirs, culture and culinary highlights, you'll find fantastic motifs for taking photos.
Bötcherstraße
Anyone who wants to discover Bremen should not skip the unique
Böttcherstraße
in the heart of the city. Built in the early 20th century by Ludwig Roselius, this alley is a true work of art. The street not only impresses with its unique symbiosis of traditional and expressionist brick architecture. It also has interesting
museums
and numerous opportunities to feast and browse. With the Haus des Glockenspiels (House of Chimes) and the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
(Candy store), two very special highlights of the Hanseatic city await you in Böttcherstraße.
Kunsthalle
Experience the pure pleasure of art at the
Kunsthalle Bremen
art gallery. Its collection spans from the 14th century to the present: European painting from the Middle Ages to the present day, sculptures from the 16th to the 21st century and media art, including works by Masolino and Dürer, Monet, van Gogh, Beckmann, Cage and Paik. The copperplate engraving cabinet is actually one of the most important of its kind. In addition, the Kunsthalle impresses again and again with exciting special exhibitions, with which the tradition-rich but no less contemporary house presents itself again and again in a new and varied way.
The Schlachte Embankment
Dolce Vita in the far north? Definitely! The sweet life awaits you at
Schlachte
- Bremen's gastronomic hotspot and promenade mile on the Weser. The former waterfront harbour invites you to stroll along the Weser, while you enjoy the numerous local beer gardens and restaurants. In summer, there is always an antique and flea market on the Tiefer on Saturdays. And during Advent, the
"Schlachte-Zauber"
Christmas market gets you in a festive mood with its very special ambience.
Book now
Boat Tour
Boat Tour
A trip to the harbour along the Schlachte Embankment
The Maritime Meile in Vegesack
If you love to be near the water, you shouldn't miss the
Maritime Meile
in Bremen-Vegesack, where Germany's first artificial harbour was built 400 years ago. From here you can enjoy a fantastic view over the Weser directly onto two large shipyards - with a little luck you might even catch a glimpse of one of the million-dollar yachts that are built here. At the Utkiek, right next to the harbour, various restaurants and pubs invite you to enjoy yourself. And further along the Weser, a botanical must-see in Bremen awaits you in the Stadtgarten Vegesack.
Stadtgarten Vegesack
Vegesack
The Überseestadt
Where ships once sailed and general cargo was loaded, the
Überseestadt
district now enriches Bremen's image. After the steady decline of the maritime industry, a completely new, vibrant and innovative quarter has been emerging here for several years, and you should definitely pay it a visit. Disused, huge warehouses made of red brick stand in exciting contrast to the most modern architecture. This interesting mix provides a varied location for numerous cafés, restaurants and businesses. The University of the Arts has found creative space in Speicher XI for its Department of Liberal Arts and Design. The Hafenmuseum (harbour museum) and the Speicherbühne (warehouse stage) also use the large space. The GOP Varieté Theatre, on the other hand, resides in one of the new buildings worth seeing directly on the Weser.
Überseestadt & Europahafen
Book now
Town Musicians Express
Town Musicians Express
Drive along the Weser to Überseestadt.
Worlds of Knowledge
"Explain it to me and I will forget. Show me and I will remember. Let me do it myself and I will understand." In keeping with this motto of Confucius, knowledge and science are brought to life in Bremen's so-called
Wissenswelten
(worlds of knowledge) and presented in a vivid and creative way. In
Universum Bremen
you can stop real lightning, overcome gravity or outwit your own senses. At the ethnological museum
Übersee-Museum
you can travel from Oceania to Africa and America. And in the
botanika
, nature awaits you in the middle of the city. Embedded in the surroundings of the famous
Rhododendronpark
, you can go on vivid journeys through the world of plants and discover fascinating topics such as biodiversity or plant ecology.
Space Tour at Airbus
Talking about innovations: As an important space centre, Bremen is reaching for the stars. The technicians at
Airbus
build space transporters and rocket parts. You can look over their shoulders and also learn how astronauts live on the International Space Station, which is monitored by Airbus.
Werder Bremen
Just like the Town Musicians, the football players of
SV Werder Bremen
are a great team. You can expect some first-class entertainment at the four-time German fooitball champions and six-time winner of the DFB Cup - regardless of whether you're rooting for Werder or prefer to cheer for another club, you'll have fun at the Weser Stadion. If you've always wanted to take a look behind the scenes of the famous stadium on the banks of the Weser, you can do so on a guided tour of the stadium. And a visit to the Werder mueum Wuseum is also worthwhile for football fans.
WESERSTADION
'Green and white forever' – the home of Werder Bremen!
Wuseum
You can find the Must-See attractions here:
The Bremen Town Musicians
Schoppensteel 1, 28195 Bremen
The town hall and Roland Statue
Am Markt 21, 28195 Bremen
The Schnoor quarter
Stavendamm 16, 28195 Bremen
Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße, 28195 Bremen
The Kunsthalle art gallery
Am Wall 207
The Schlachte Embankment
Schlachte, 28195 Bremen
The Maritime Mile in Vegesack
Vegesacker Weserpromenade 3-1, 28757 Bremen
The Überseestadt district
Überseepromenade, 28217 Bremen
Knowledge Worlds
Wiener Straße 1A
Space Tour
Airbus-Allee 1
Werder Bremen
Franz-Böhmert-Str.1
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
Book now
City Break Bremen
City Break Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Out and about in Bremen
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
360 Degree Tour
Visit the Böttcherstraße
Bremen Information - Tourist Information Office
Home
Tourism
Service
Tourist Information Office
Bremen Information - Tourist Information Office
The Tourist information office is your personal point of contact in Bremen. Drop in and see us!
If you're looking for a reminder of your trip to Bremen, we stock a good selection of souvenirs, including books about Bremen, T-shirts, postcards, mugs, Bremen Town Musician soft toys and lots more.
Opening times
Mon - Fr: 9.00 am - 6.00 pm
Sat: 9.30 am - 5 pm
Sun: 10 am - 4 pm
Visit our city-centre Tourist information office in
Böttcherstrasse 4
(Glockenspiel house), close to the market square and the famous
Bremen Town Musicians
. The popular guided walks start on our doorstep.
What awaits you on site
Our Tourist information team not only give you plenty of handy tips, they also offer lots more:
Tourist information about Bremen
Brochures
and event listings
Information about the arts, shopping, restaurants and cafés
Hotel reservations
at up-to-the-minute rates
Booking service for guided tours
of the city, tours of the town hall, sightseeing tours and riverboat cruises
Tickets for museums and events
BremenCARD
(discovery card) on sale
Audio guides for hire (in German, English, Italian or Spanish)
Souvenirs
Wheelchair hire
Even though Bremen is a compact city, it can still take a long time to make your way around it because there is so much to see. If you struggle to get around on foot, you can borrow a wheelchair free of charge from
the tourist information office. All we request is a refundable deposit of €50 and a copy of your ID card or passport.
Specifications:
Seat width 48cm, seat depth 42cm
Backrest height 43cm, seat height 50cm
Max. 130kg body weight
Incl. drum brakes for use by companion or carer
You might also be interested in...
Customer Advisory and Sales
We are your local partner and we will help you plan your trip.
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Excursions - Activities - Day Trips
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Excursions
Day Trips to Bremen and the Surrounding Area
Only a Stone's Throw away from Bremen to further Destinations for Excursions
There is much to discover not only in Bremen, but also in the surrounding area of the hanseatic city. If you have other items on your to-do list, Bremen is an ideal starting point for day trips.
Exploring the Bremen Surroundings on Foot
Moorland, fish ponds, primeval forests and nature reserves tempt you to take an extensive hike in the Bremen countryside. Many of the idyllic destinations can be reached within a short drive. Explore the green surroundings and discover different animal and plant species! We have put together a few tips for
hiking trails in Bremen and the surrounding area
and the surrounding area.
Would you like some Culture?
Get a Breath of Sea Air!
Off to the Island - Harriersand
Just an
hour's drive from Bremen
, you'll find pure island feeling waiting for you! Harriersand will win you over with its long, white sandy beach. On this excursion, the journey is the destination, as the outward journey takes you along green meadows and idyllic nature. The river island lies opposite the harbour town of Brake. Depending on which part of the beach you are on, you can observe the hustle and bustle of the harbour on the opposite side of the Weser. The ferry Guntsiet shuttles between Brake and Harriersand several times a day and brings many cyclists who like to use the surroundings for cycling tours.
On the North Sea Coast
Splash your feet in the water, smell the sea breeze on a walk or look for slippery lugworms at low tide. The North Sea offers you
many beautiful destinations!
Enjoy the sea and the maritime feeling in northern Germany. Whether you want to refresh yourself with a swim or relax on a leisurely mudflat hike - find out about the current tides before your visit so that there are no surprises.
Bremerhaven
Bremerhaven is only a stone's throw away by car, as it takes just one hour to reach the
Bremerhaven
Here you can let the sea breeze blow around your nose and enjoy a hearty fish sandwich. The Klimahaus, the Zoo am Meer, the Deutsches Auswandererhaus and the Schaufenster Fischereihafen round off your maritime excursion.
Long-distance Cycle Routes in and around Bremen
Various sections of these routes are also suitable for one-day bike rides.
Big City Feeling - City Tours
Family attractions in Bremen's surrounding region
You might also be interested in...
Unusual Stays
Outdoor Dining
Maritime Bremen
Discover Bremen by Bike
BremenCARD - All you need to know about the ticket
Home
Tourism
Booking
BremenCARD
BremenCARD - All you need to know
Save money and explore Bremen in style!
Whether you’re planning a short trip with the family, a visit with friends or a romantic break, the BremenCARD offers value for money! It entitles the holder to attractive discounts in many of Bremen’s museums, theatres and other cultural venues. Use the card on local public transport and enjoy tasty discounts in selected Bremen restaurants.
Notes:
Discounts generally apply only to full-price admission tickets and are not valid for special exhibitions in museums. The BremenCARD is issued to a named individual and is not transferable. It is therefore valid only when accompanied by official identification. Participants’ names must be provided when ordering. The card is issued for specific dates and does not need to be validated before use. After payment, no cancellation or modifications are possible.
Customer Advisory and Sales
Advice by telephone and online
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Accommodation
Freie Brau Union Bremen - Free Brewing Union Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Freie Brau Union Bremen - Free Brewing Union Bremen
Freie Brau Union Bremen - Free Brewing Union Bremen
Visit this Bremen craft brewery with its own mash house, botting plant, brewpub, and covered beer garden all in a historical setting.
Old Walls, New Beers
No beer had been brewed at the
Union Brewery
for almost 50 years, but since 2015 the brewery has been writing a new chapter in its history. The new brewhouse was built in the same location as the old one, and the owners were keen to create a contrast of historical brick building and state-of-the-art stainless steel brewhouse. The owners are passionate about craft beers, and about Bremen as the home of their brewery. The logical conclusion, therefore, was to call their beers BREMER (of Bremen), and BREMER beers are only brewed and bottled in the city.
Craft stands for artisan production processes, for an openness towards new and surprising taste experiences, and for the courage to create them – but also for maintaining traditional types of beer. This philosophy is why the brewery insists on local production, and the beers are neither heat-treated nor filtered, which means they retain a natural cloudiness. Visitors can take part in tours, beer seminars and beer-brewing days at the brewery to find out where and how BREMER craft beers are made and bottled.
Brewery Tour Union Brauerei (in German)
Book now
Brewery Tour For Groups
Brewery Tour For Groups
Book now
Beer Seminar (in German)
Beer Seminar (in German)
Liquid Pleasures
Bremen has something for every connoisseur.
Walle District
Maritime Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Maritime Bremen
Living and enjoying life on the river - the Weser has not only shaped Bremen's history, it also creates the special ambience of the Hanseatic city.
As a Hanseatic city, Bremen looks back on a long seafaring tradition. This history is recognisable everywhere in the city. Numerous museums focus their exhibitions on Bremen as a port city. Along the Weser you will not only feel the sea air, you will also discover numerous ships worth seeing. Some of them invite you on excursions, while others offer unusual overnight accommodation. Culinary delights await you not only by the water, but also on it. Let us inspire you to experience the wonderful flair of the Hanseatic city!
Ships and Ferries
Picturesque Harbours and Marinas to Stay in Bremen
Well worth visiting: Old Weser harbours throughout Bremen that connect seafaring traditions and modern use as a marina. All over Bremen leisure captains can find a suitable berth for their vessel. Bridging the gap between historical seafaring traditions and old harbour buildings on the one hand and current forms of use on the other, several old harbour areas now serve as marinas and picturesque spots for instagrammable sunsets.
Trips and Tours on Ships and Boats
Schlachte Embankment
Experience the Town History and the History of the Harbour
Focke-Museum
Übersee Museum
Hafenmuseum
German Maritime Museum
The River Weser
Häfen District
Überseestadt
Water Sports
Swimming Pools in Bremen
Beaches in and around Bremen
Uferaue Habenhausen
Durch die "naturverträgliche Naherholung" ist in Habenhausen ein Sandufer entstanden.
Café Sand
Strandweg 106
Werdersee
For joggers, walkers, swimmers or water sports enthusiasts - the Werdersee is always worth a visit. The central location, around 54.5 hectares of lake surface and excellent water quality offer the best conditions for local recreation on and in the water.
Weserfähre
Saisonaler Fährverkehr von Mai bis September
Vegesack - Lemwerder
Ganzjähriger Fährverkehr abhängig von Verkehrsaufkommen, vorfahrtsberechtigtem Schiffsverkehr, Betankung, höherer Gewalt wie beispielsweise Eisgang, Hoch- oder Niedrigwasser und Nebel sowie Betriebsstörungen und besonderen Anlässen
Sielwallfähre
Saisonaler Fährverkehr von März bis Oktober zwischen Osterdeich und Café Sand
Farge - Berne
Ganzjähriger Fährverkehr abhängig von Verkehrsaufkommen, vorfahrtsberechtigtem Schiffsverkehr, Betankung, höherer Gewalt wie beispielsweise Eisgang, Hoch- oder Niedrigwasser und Nebel sowie Betriebsstörungen und besonderen Anlässen.
Blumenthal - Motzen
Ganzjähriger Fährverkehr abhängig von Verkehrsaufkommen, vorfahrtsberechtigtem Schiffsverkehr, Betankung, höherer Gewalt wie beispielsweise Eisgang, Hoch- oder Niedrigwasser und Nebel sowie Betriebsstörungen und besonderen Anlässen.
Überseestadt und Europahafen
Wo noch vor einigen Jahren Baumwolle, Kaffee und Gewürze lagerten, entsteht heute eins der spannendsten Kunst-, Kultur- und Dienstleistungszentren Bremens.
Torfhafen Findorfff
Findorffallee
Neustädter Häfen
Am linken Weserufer liegt der Ortsteil Neustädter Häfen. Bestehend aus dem Becken II, dem Lankenauer Höft und dem Wendebecken Neustadt wird hier verladen, was nicht in einen Container passt.
Industriehäfen
Die maritime Atmosphäre Bremens lässt sich besonders gut im Ortsteil Industriehäfen erleben. Sowohl zu Fuß, mit dem Rad oder motorisiert erkunden Sie den Weg bis zur Schleuse, von wo aus Sie einen tollen Ausblick über die Hafenanlage genießen. Besonders bei Hochwasser dürfen Sie mit imposanten Frachtern rechnen.
U-Boot-Bunker Valentin
Der U-Boot-Bunker-Valentin ist die Ruine einer U-Boot-Werft der deutschen Kriegsmarine aus dem Zweiten Weltkrieg. Von 1943 bis 1945 wurden hier Tausende Zwangsarbeiter eingesetzt. Seit 2011 wird das Areal zum "Denkort Bunker Valentin" umgewandelt. Führungen vermitteln einen Überblick über die Geschichte des Ortes.
Hafenmuseum Speicher XI
Am Speicher XI 1
Entdecken Sie im historischen Baumwollspeicher 120 Jahre Bremer Hafengeschichte: Von "A" wie "Anbiet" bis "Z" wie "Zuschüttung" wird die Entwicklung vom Überseehafen zur Überseestadt anschaulich erlebbar.
Museumshafen Vegesack
Am Vegesacker Hafen
Focke Museum
Schwachhauser Heerstraße 240
Übersee-Museum
Bahnhofsplatz 13
Schiff der Jugendherberge Bremen "Die Weser"
Hotelschiff Perle
Alexander von Humboldt
Yachthafen Hemelingen
Die freie Marina des Wassersport-Zentrums Oberweser hält einige Gastliegeplätze für Besucher bereit.
Marina Europahafen
Ob dauerhaft oder als Gast - in der Marina Europahafen liegt ihr Schiff in einem modernen Yachthafen geschützt vor Wellenschlag und Strömungen.
Marina Bremen
In unmittelbarer Nähe zur Innenstadt liegt ihr Boot an der Unteren Schlachte.
You might also be interested in...
Swimming in Bremen
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Breminale - Bremen's Culture Festival on the Weser
Breminale - Bremen's Culture Festival on the Weser
Five-day culture festival on the Weser river
Once a year, for five exciting days, stages and stands light up the banks of the Weser: The Breminale invites you to come and enjoy music, art, and culture -outdoors. A truly exceptional festival.
Where & When
July 3rd to July 7th, 2024
At the Osterdeich and in the meadow behind the Kunsthalle
Breminale
Official homepage
Breminale
The Breminale is a five-day open-air festival on Bremen’s Osterdeich, taking place every summer. The festival offers a wide-ranging programme for everyone. The programme includes live music in circus tents, art, jugglers and jesters, games for kids, as well as theatre, dance and readings. Numerous food stands sell delicious international specialities. A day out at the Breminale can easy carry on into the night.
Cultural highlight on the Weser river
Since the first Breminale in 1987 - which took place on Bremen's market square - the festival, with its combination of musical highlights and cultural diversity, has become a permanent fixture in Bremen's cultural landscape. This is also reflected in the visitor numbers: With 220,000 visitors, a new record was set in 2013.
Over 120 Musicians on Eight Stages
A diverse musical experience awaits you on the various stages of the festival. The Radio Bremen stage is the place where talented musicians from Germany and all over the world perform.
If you want to feel the energy of young bands, you will find up-and-coming musicians on the Flut stage.
On the Bretter stage, which literally takes its name from the planks it is built from, you can expect fascinating performances by artists who may not yet be so well known. If you prefer a relaxed atmosphere, then the Parkbühne is the place for you. Here you can enjoy calm music and be enchanted by theatre performances. Inspiring texts are also recited.
The Schleuse stage, on the other hand, offers a mixture of pop music and the sounds of bands from Bremen. Here you can be inspired by rousing melodies and local music.
For those who want to shake a leg, there are the Urlaub and Pappinale Krakinale stages. On the Urlaub stage, DJs provide a great atmosphere, accompanied by a foosball table and a water slide for extra fun. On the Pappinale Krakinale stage, on the other hand, you can move to the music and enjoy a rousing dance atmosphere.
You are also invited to dance on the Muchos Mas stage. Here you can also expect rousing sounds that will encourage you to dance.
The Programme 2024
Impressions of the Bands
You might also be interested in...
Summer
Bar Meets Culture
Culture and Events
There's always something happening in Bremen!
Free and Outdoors
Tips for free, outdoor fun throughout the year in Bremen
Seasonal Tips: Spring, Summer, Autumn & Winter in Bremen
Home
Living
Seasonal Tips
Tips for every Season in Bremen
Enjoy spring, summer, autumn and winter in Bremen!
All four seasons offer a variety of events, pleasures and experiences in Bremen. Learn more about the different facets of the seasons in Bremen and find the right activities and tips for you.
Spring
The days are getting longer and the first warm hours invite you to outdoor activities. Our suggestions are sure to get you in the mood for spring!
Summer
Summer is just around the corner and our beautiful Bremen is ready to show you its best side! Bremen has numerous spots and activities in store for you that promise pure variety. Let yourself be inspired and surprised by the diversity of Bremen's summer!
Autumn
The low sun of the golden season bathes Bremen in a very special light. Enjoy the autumn on the Weser and let yourself be enchanted by the atmosphere and the many possibilities of the city.
Winter
The days are getting shorter, the temperatures are dropping - winter is coming to Bremen. Christmas is fast approaching. But even aside from the Advent and Christmas season, winter in Bremen has its own special charm. Enjoy the cosiness of the dark season, let yourself be enchanted by winter landscapes, feast and relax or use grey days for fun and games in the dry.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Bremen Carnival
Bremen Carnival
Be enchanted by sounds and lights at the Bremen Carnival.
The 40th Bremen Carnival is to be celebrated on a grand scale again in 2025! What form it will take is still to be decided, so you can stay tuned.
Where and When?
February 21st to 22nd, 2025
Bremen's old town
Bremen Carnival
Homepage
40th Bremen Carnival
In 2025 soll der Bremer Karneval wieder in einem größeren Rahmen gefeiert werden. Die Planungen zur Form der Veranstaltung finden noch statt, es bleibt also spannend.
You might also be interested in...
Breminale
Five-day culture festival.
La Strada
Top Events in Bremen
Bike Citizens - Cycling Navigation App for Bremen
Bike Citizens - Cycling Navigation App for Bremen
The easy and convenient way to follow exciting bike tours and to find your way around.
Bike Citizens is a free smartphone app for Bremen, Bremerhaven and the surrounding areas. Whether you want a ready-to-go route through the city or a personalised tour, the app will navigate you to your destination safely and clearly using spoken directions. And if you lose internet connection en route, you will still be able to make full use of the app. The app is available for
Apple
and
Android
devices and is easy to download.
Start the app, then
Discover new cycle routes and try out suggested tours
Record your cycle trips and
share them with friends
Create your own bike tours using the online route planner and
discover new places
Be guided by voice prompts and enjoy cycling with less stress (
available in many languages
)
Receive news feeds about cycling and Bremen
Explore Bremen and find out more about its history, culture and cultural life
View a summary of your activities on the bicycle computer
Join campaigns
Plan your Route
Know where to go. The Bike Citizens navigation system is also available for your browser.
FINN - The Smartphone Holder
So that you don't have to hold your phone in your hand the whole time, you can get a FINN smartphone holder from the tourist information offices. Simply attach it to your handlebars and off you go!
As well as FINN holders, you can also pick up a wide range of maps, cycling accessories and advice from the
tourist information offices
.
Impressions of the Bike Citizens Cycling App
Download the App
Contact
info@bike-it-bremen.de
You can find us on Facebook as well:
You might also be interested in...
WK-Bike
Bike sharing in Bremen
Information and Service for Cyclists
Cycling in Bremen
Das Rathaus Bremen - Untere Rathaushalle
Seasonal Tips: Spring, Summer, Autumn & Winter in Bremen
Home
Living
Seasonal Tips
Tips for every Season in Bremen
Enjoy spring, summer, autumn and winter in Bremen!
All four seasons offer a variety of events, pleasures and experiences in Bremen. Learn more about the different facets of the seasons in Bremen and find the right activities and tips for you.
Spring
The days are getting longer and the first warm hours invite you to outdoor activities. Our suggestions are sure to get you in the mood for spring!
Summer
Summer is just around the corner and our beautiful Bremen is ready to show you its best side! Bremen has numerous spots and activities in store for you that promise pure variety. Let yourself be inspired and surprised by the diversity of Bremen's summer!
Autumn
The low sun of the golden season bathes Bremen in a very special light. Enjoy the autumn on the Weser and let yourself be enchanted by the atmosphere and the many possibilities of the city.
Winter
The days are getting shorter, the temperatures are dropping - winter is coming to Bremen. Christmas is fast approaching. But even aside from the Advent and Christmas season, winter in Bremen has its own special charm. Enjoy the cosiness of the dark season, let yourself be enchanted by winter landscapes, feast and relax or use grey days for fun and games in the dry.
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Tickets for Tours and Sights in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Booking
Tours and Tickets
Tickets for Tours and Sights in Bremen
Here you can book the most popular tours and tickets!
When you're in Bremen, there are plenty of experiences waiting for you. Explore the different sides of the Hanseatic City on a guided tour. Our offer is as diverse as the city itself. Whether it's a factory tour, a culinary tour or a visit to the museum, we have tickets and offers for you.
Our most popular offers
Book now
Guided City Tour
Guided City Tour
Book now
Guided Tour of Town Hall
Guided Tour of Town Hall
Book now
Tour with the Nightwatchman
Tour with the Nightwatchman
Book now
Tickets for Museums, Botanika, Universum and more
Tickets for Museums, Botanika, Universum and more
Gift Vouchers - Book Directly Online
A Bremen Experience to give away, what a nice Idea!
Behind the Scenes
Bremen is the brand capital - this includes names like Beck's Bier, Mercedes-Benz and Airbus. But there are also wonderful manufactories in Bremen that spoil us with all kinds of products. Take a look
behind the scenes
- these are our most popular offers:
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Book now
Factory tour Mercedes-Benz
Factory tour Mercedes-Benz
Book now
'Aerospace Bremen' Guided Tour
'Aerospace Bremen' Guided Tour
Book now
Brewery Tour Freie Brau Union Bremen
Brewery Tour Freie Brau Union Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
Audio Guide Bremen
Maritime Meile in Bremen-Vegesack
Home
Tourism
Sights
Maritime Meile in Bremen-Vegesack
Maritime Meile in Bremen-Vegesack
1852 metres of seafaring and shipbuilding history - stroll along the "Maritime Meile" in Bremen's north, in Vegesack.
In Vegesack, about 25 kilometres from the city centre, is the "Maritime Meile" located. The Weser promenade is lined with maritime monuments, a park, historic ships, inviting places to stop for a bite to eat and a magnificent view of Bremen's lifeline, the Weser.
Quaint pubs at the "Utkiek", old sailors in the historic museum harbour and exciting museums - all this and more awaits you at the Maritime Meile in
Vegesack
. It is the maritime heart of the district on the
Weser
and corresponds exactly to the length of a nautical mile: 1852 metres. We briefly introduce you to the most interesting places.
Museum harbour and historic ships
Vegesack harbour has been in operation since 1622, making it the oldest man-made harbour in Germany. It served as an export harbour, a base for whaling and a centre for shipbuilding. In the last quarter of the 18th century, however, the port lost its importance as the Weser downstream from Vegesack became increasingly silted up. Today, more than 20 ships are permanently anchored in the
museum harbour
, some of which can also be visited. At the north quay of the museum harbour, a bronze group of figures by the artist Thomas Recker watches the goings-on on the Weser through binoculars.
Urban park Vegesack and signal station
The beautiful terraced urban park Vegesack was originally a botanical garden laid out in the early 19th century by the eminent botanist Dr. Albrecht Roth. Many of the botanical rarities of that time are still preserved today and make the beautifully laid out green space a real experience. During a walk you can enjoy the view of the Weser with its shipyards and shipping traffic in the midst of blossoming nature.
The task of the old
signal station
, which was originally located at the harbour head, was to indicate the water level (water depth) of the Weser to passing ships. With modern radio communication, it became superfluous and passed into the possession of the association
Maritime Tradition Vegesack Nautilus e.V.
Since then it has been the centre of maritime festivities on the Weser promenade.
Utkiek
The Low German word "Utkiek" means something like "lookout" or "view". It is located at the southern end of the Alte Hafenstraße and, as the name suggests, offers a wide view up and down the Weser. Today, the Utkiek is home to quaint pubs and restaurants such as the "Havenhaus", the former home of the harbour master. Another sight is the bronze cast of a giant whale's pine tree, which stands erect as an archway at the Utkiek.
Overbeck Museum
The
Overbeck Museum
is hidden in the impressive ambience of an old Vegesack packing house in the Alte Hafenstraße. Along with other works, the museum mainly exhibits pieces by the artist couple Fritz and Hermine Overbeck, who were part of the famous Worpswede artists' colony and dedicated their works to the atmospheric natural views of the Teufelsmoor.
Book now
Guided Tour "Maritime Meile"
Guided Tour "Maritime Meile"
History, sights, shipyards and fishing history in Vegesack
At a glance
What to see on the "Maritime Meile"?
Museumshaven
Vegesack Urban Garden
Old Signal Station
Utkiek
Overbeck Museum
Vegesack
Maritime Festival
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
Harbour Festival in Vegesack
Vegesack municipal gardens
Maritime Bremen
Heini Holtenbeen Statue
Home
Tourism
Sights
Legends, Traditions and Monuments
Heini Holtenbeen Statue
Heini Holtenbeen Statue
One of Bremen's most eccentric characters: Heini Holtenbeen.
Strictly speaking, Heini Holtenbeen is not actually fictional. But this local character certainly became a legend in his own lifetime.The statue of one of Bremen's most eccentric characters in the peaceful Schnoor quarter.
The Story of Heini Holtenbeen
He was born in Bremen in 1835 as Jürgen Heinrich Keberle. During his apprenticeship as a port tobacco inspector, he fell through a skylight. His accident left him with slight brain damage and a stiff leg. From then on, he could be found in the market square every day, where he would take cigars from the merchants as they entered the stock exchange, where smoking was not permitted. He then made his own cigars from the stubs he had collected, which he sold. When times were very hard, he would also ask people for a "loan" now and again. Heini Holtenbeen died in 1909 in a poor asylum.
Bronze Sculpture and Anecdotes
Today, a bronze sculpture by Claus Homfeld commemorates this Bremen character. Just around the corner from the statue, at the House of History in the Schnoor quarter, you can hear Heini Holtenbeen's anecdotes told by the man himself.
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
You might also be interested in...
Summer in Lesmona
Best Views in Bremen
Museums and Science
Cycling in Bremen
Home
Living
Sports
Bremen by bike
Cycling in Bremen
In no other city in Germany with more than 500,000 inhabitants do more people cycle than in Bremen. The people here love their bikes! The many cycle paths in Bremen offer something for everyone!
Bremen is famous for being a walkable and well-connected city, but few people are aware that it also has more cycle paths than most other cities in Germany. However, this is not the only reason why cycling in Bremen is a true pleasure. The many parks and green spaces and the almost complete absence of hills make it the perfect place for bike rides with the whole family. From cycling enthusiasts to casual recreational riders – the many cycle paths in Bremen offer something for everyone!
Get to Know Bremen by Bike!
Plan your Route!
The Bike Citizens navigation system is available for your browser.
Cycling Tours in and around Bremen
Bike Citizens App
The easy and convenient way to follow exciting bike tours.
Impressions: Bremen by Bike
Book now
Hotels for Cyclists
Hotels for Cyclists
Here you can find the right accommodation for your cycling trip
Bike Hire Outlets
A selection of cycle hire options in Bremen
Book now
Guided Cycling Tour through Bremen
Guided Cycling Tour through Bremen
Brepark Fahrradparkhaus and Radstation at the Bremen Train Station
Bremen for Cyclists
Find some Inspiration for your Stay in our Hanseatic City!
Long-distance Cycle Routes in and around Bremen
Various sections of these routes are also suitable for one-day bike rides.
Dom-Museum at St. Peter’s Cathedral Bremen
Dom-Museum at St. Peter’s Cathedral Bremen
Archaeological finds inspired the founding of a museum
The Dom-Museum at St. Peter's Cathedral museum provides an insight into the 1200-year history of the cathedral, documents its construction, displays sacred works of art and the spectacular excavation finds from seven bishop's tombs.
Discover the Treasures of the Dom-Museum at St. Peter's Cathedral
The Dom-Museum at St. Peter's Cathedral marks the completion of a major cathedral restoration, in the course of which extensive archaeological excavations have provided new insights into the 1200-year history of St. Peter's Cathedral and uncovered medieval tombs with precious grave goods. The museum is housed in historic rooms next to the cathedral's high choir.
The entry is free!
Archaeological Finds, Medieval Art and More
On the ground floor, archaeological objects such as foundation fragments of the old apse and a bishop’s sarcophagus from the 11
th
century can be seen. Al secco paintings, statues of the saints, stone reliefs from the 15
th
century, and photo documentation of the architectural history of the cathedral are also on view.
In a smaller, darkened room, objects found in seven medieval bishops’ graves - discovered during the archaeological excavation of the Cathedral’s central nave - are kept in light-protected display cases.
Ecumenical Museum of Bremen Church History
In the extension section of the museum, which opened in 1995, the life-size painting "The Man of Sorrows" by Lucas Cranach the Elder catches the eye. It was donated to the cathedral in 1825. In an adjacent wall display case, loans from the Catholic parish of St. John's have found their place; this makes the Cathedral Museum's claim to be an ecumenical museum for Bremen's church history obvious. In another textile room, unusually well-preserved vestments from a bishop's tomb are on display.
Get the Museum Guide For Your Phone
A Virtual Visit to the Dom-Museum
Dom-Museum Bremen
Website
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Informations
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Guided Tour
Book quickly and securely!
Public Transport Bremen: Bus and Tram
Home
Living
Mobility and Traffic
Public Transport Bremen: Bus and Tram
Public Transport Bremen: Bus and Tram
With public transport through Bremen
In Bremen, the Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG) ensures an adequate network of bus and tram lines, some of which also operate as night lines. Within the framework of the VBN, the timetables are adapted in the best possible way regionally and supra-regionally.
Every day, the
Bremer Straßenbahn AG (BSAG)
provides mobility in Bremen with around 380 vehicles - modern trams and buses. Well over 250,000 people use the service every day. More than 2,000 employees are at work day and night: behind the wheel, at the crank, in the workshops, in service and in administration.
Bremer Straßenbahn AG
Your contact for all questions about buses and trams in Bremen.
FahrPlaner
Find the connection that suits!
Network Map
Park and Ride
FahrPlaner App
Get the VBN App
Bike and Ride
Tickets and Prices
In cooperation with the VBN, Bremer Straßenbahn AG offers various tickets for individual needs. From single tickets for short and long distances to bicycle transport and monthly tickets as well as solutions for frequent travellers such as BOB and MIA, numerous tickets are offered.
Freunde der Bremer Straßenbahn
Rides with historic trains and operator of the tramway museum "Depot".
BSAG Custumer Centers
Some things have to be done on site. If, for example, you need to hand in an MIA or semester ticket, you can do this at the BSAG customer centres.
New in Bremen
Home
Living
Residing
New in Bremen
New in Bremen
Welcome to our beautiful city at the Weser, to your new home! This is where you'll find tips for getting started in your new place of residence. Let yourself be inspired and make yourself at home in Bremen.
Whether your studies, a new job, love or simply the desire for change brings you to Bremen- with the beautiful city on the Weser you have chosen a wonderful place to live. North German serenity, lots of green, the complete range from high culture to subculture, cosmopolitanism, short distances, the proximity to the water - there are many reasons that speak for Bremen and create the local lifestyle. We try to give you a small impression of the diversity of your new home and at the same time give you a few practical tips. We're glad you're here!
Off to Bremen! Tips for moving and arriving
Your move to Bremen is just around the corner? We want to help you to make this step as fast and comfortable as possible.
Making yourself at home quickly
A favorite place to eat or a favorite place to stroll, on a first-name basis with the vendors or familiar with the most important hotspots and insider tips, as well as an absolutely cozy home - these are all factors that contribute to feeling really at home in a city. The road to familiarity is peppered with many exciting discoveries and new experiences. We've got plenty of inspiration for you.
Bremen Lifestyle
Cycling, ' kaffeesieren ', a cabbage tour in freezing temperatures, enjoying handmade delicacies, spending time in nature - all this and much more is part of the Bremen way of life, which you can best experience live, of course. To let you know where to find the sweet life along the Weser, we give you a little preview here.
Connecting with people
The Northern Germans have a reputation for being somewhat reserved or even cold. This impression is deceptive. Here people just like to take a little time to get to know their counterparts better. But once you have conquered the hearts of Bremen's people, you have made friends for life. Below are a few tips on where you can make friends.
bremen.de on social networks
You might also be interested in...
Family-Friendly cafés
Stroll and Hike
Events
Seasons in Bremen
Nightlife in Bremen
Excursions
Days out and the surrounding region.
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour Bremen
Mercedes-Benz Factory Tour Bremen
Take a look behind the scenes at one of Germany's most modern car factories and witness at close hand the production of a Mercedes.
Bremen is the Largest Mercedes Production Location in the World
The Hanseatic city is also home to world-famous brands. Mercedes-Benz has also established itself on the Weser. With more than 12,500 employees, the Mercedes-Benz plant in Bremen is the largest private employer in the region. At the Mercedes-Benz Customer Center Bremen, you can not only pick up your new vehicle or enjoy a delicious meal in the restaurant, but also "immerse" yourself in various vehicle types at innovative installations relating to Mercedes-Benz vehicles. There is also a play area for the little ones.
Book now
Group Tour
Group Tour
Mercedes-Benz Factory
Offroad Adventures on The Rock
Are you a fan of action and adventure? Then take up the challenge and test your driving skills on the Mercedes-Benz off-road vehicle course "The Rock". In the middle of the city, you can experience driving fun and off-road power around Bremen's third-highest elevation with a 70% gradient and 80% slope!
Book now
The Rock!
The Rock!
Book now
After Work on the Off-Road Vehicle Course
After Work on the Off-Road Vehicle Course
You might also be interested in...
Airbus
Look Behind the Scenes
Traveling to Bremen: Arrival and Useful Information
Home
Tourism
Service
Location and Travel Information
Arrival and Useful Information
Whether by plane, train, bus or car - Bremen is easy to reach. Here you will find tips to help you find your way around the Hanseatic city.
Where is Bremen?
Bremen is known as a city of short distances. Many corners of the city can be discovered wonderfully on foot or by bike, the favourite means of transport for Bremen residents. Of course, the city by the Weser also has a well-developed public transport network. In addition, the centrally located main railway station and the ZOB (central bus station) as well as the airport close to the city make it easy for you to get here. We've provided some tips for your journey and orientation in Bremen on this page.
So where is Bremen located?
Bremen, the Hanseatic city by the Weser, together with Bremerhaven, located about 65 kilometres further north at the mouth of the Weser, form Germany's only 2-city federal state. Bremen is the smallest federal state with about 550,000 inhabitants in Bremen and 130,000 in Bremerhaven. At the same time, the Hanseatic city of Bremen is the pulsating heart of north-west Germany and home to the world-famous Bremen Town Musicians. A large city with many facets - history, tradition, science, nature and culture combine to create an ever-fascinating overall picture.
Distances to ...
Hamburg: approx. 120 km
Hanover: approx. 130 km
Berlin: approx. 400 km
This is Bremen
Get a first impression!
City Map
Here you'll find orientation
Bremen Airport
Only ten minutes away from the city centre
Bremen Main Train Station
Worth seeing transport hub in the city centre
Central Bus Station
To Bremen by Long-Distance Bus
Bus and Tram
On the Move with Public Transport
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
As a city of short distances, Bremen is easily accessible for all.
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Sunday Shopping in Bremen 2024
Top Events in Bremen
Sunday Shopping in Bremen 2024
Sunday Shopping in Bremen 2024
Stroll through the shops in Bremen and do your shopping outside normal opening hours. Find out the shopping dates for 2023!
Bremen is a great place to shop – there is something to suit every taste and budget. The shops in the Schnoor quarter draw in the crowds seven days a week, even on Sundays when most other shops in Germany are closed. Many other shops also open their doors on Sundays to coincide with special events or local festivals.
The information is based on the ordinance of 14th February 2023. Please inform yourself independently with the responsible actors whether they would like to use the possibility of a Sunday opening.
Sunday opening at a glance (1pm to 6pm)
2. April
(Altstadt, Bahnhofsvorstadt, Ostertor, Steintor, Fesenfeld, Findorff and the streets "Am Schwarzem Meer" and "Hamburger Straße" between "Sankt-Jürgen Straße" and "Verdener Straße")
7. Mai
(Vegesack, Osterholz and the street "Zum alten Speicher")
11. Juni
(Altstadt, Bahnhofsvorstadt, Ostertor, Steintor, Fesenfeld, Findorff and the streets "Am Schwarzem Meer" and "Hamburger Straße" between "Sankt-Jürgen Straße" and "Verdener Straße")
25. Juni
(Kirchhuchting and in the streets "Borgwardstraße", "Bergfeldstraße", "Fritz-Thiele-Straße", "Ernst-Buchholz-Straße" and "Steinsetzerstraße")
2. Juli
(Gröpelingen, Industriehäfen, Überseestadt and the street "Auf den Delben")
8. Oktober
(Osterholz, Vegesack and in the streets "Borgwardstraße", "Bergfeldstraße", "Fritz-Thiele-Straße", "Ernst-Buchholz-Straße" and "Steinsetzerstraße")
29. Oktober
(Altstadt, Bahnhofsvorstadt, Ostertor, Steintor, Fesenfeld, Findorff)
5. November
(Gröpelingen, Industriehäfen, Überseestadt, Kirchhuchting and the street "Auf den Delben")
You might also be interested in...
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen.
Fairtrade Shopping
Bicycles Shopping Tipps
Vegesack
Home
Living
Vegesack
Vegesack
In the Far North of the City
Vegesack lies in the north of Bremen, where the Lesum River meets the Weser. About 400 years ago, Germany’s first artificial harbour was constructed here. Today this neighbourhood no longer lives from fishing, but the olden days make themselves known in Vegesack Harbour at the Havenhaus (Harbour House), the fountain column, and the bronze statue of a whale jaw. The pedestrian zone in the heart of the neighbourhood offers modern counterpoints: Here residents and visitors are presented with numerous recreation and shopping opportunities. The yearly Vegesacker Hafenfest (Vegesack Harbour Festival) takes place on the first weekend in June.
Impressions of Vegesack
Maritime Flair at Utkiek in 360 Degrees
Quintessential Vegesack
The Bremen neighbourhood
Vegesack
is made up of five different sections. The section bearing the same name as the neighbourhood - Vegesack - is its centre and has the harbour in it, which is now a museum, rather than a working, harbour. Addition attractions here include the Weser promenade and the Kitohaus.
Grohn
is a particularly diverse area. Once a fishing village, it’s now the home of Jacobs University and the portal to the Haus Seefahr. In
Schönebeck
there a some very old buildings, included the well-known
Museum Schloss Schönebeck
(Palace Schönebeck) in the valley of the Schönebecker Aue (Meadow) and the small wooden Schönebecker church. The residential character of the section of
Aumund-Hammersbeck
is illustrated by the single- family houses seen here, but there are also some companies located in the area.
Fähr-Lobbendorf
was created by combining the sections of Fähr and Lobbendorf in 1946.
Not to Be Missed in Vegesack
Data and Facts
Population:
35.083 (Stand 12/2019)
Surface Area:
11,9 km²
Vegesack
Vegesack,
Grohn,
Schönebeck,
Aumund-Hammersbeck,
Fähr-Lobbendorf
Postcodes
28755,
28759,
28757
Public Transportation
Bus Routes:
87, 90 , 91, 92, 94, 95, 98, 99, 677
Night Lines:
N7, N61, N94
Train Connection:
RS1 direction Verden (Aller) or direction Bremen Farge or Bremen Vegesack
Local Office Vegesack
If you have any requests, comments or complaints about your neighbourhood, please contact the Vegesack local office.
Weiterlesen
Good to Know!
Those who live in Vegesack probably already know that the neighbourhood in its entirety has less dance clubs than on the single strip of the "Diskomeile" (Disco Mile) in Bremen’s downtown. Better to reckon with a half hour train ride into town if you want to go dancing. However, Vegesack has its fair share of pubs and bars for getting together and watching a game, or to enjoy a delicious cocktail. For example, at the "Fährhaus", "Muddy", or in the music and sport bar "Horizont".
You might also be interested in...
Districts of Bremen
Learn more about what you should not miss in the different parts of the city.
Vegesack Harbour Festival
Bremer Braumanufaktur - Hopfenfänger brand - Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Bremer Braumanufaktur - Brewery Manufactory
Bremer Braumanufaktur - Brewery Manufactory
Bremer Braumanufaktur is breathing new life into Bremen's brewing heritage with its range of Hopfenfänger beers.
The Hanseatic city has a beer brewing tradition that goes back almost 1,000 years. Bremen was first mentioned in connection with beer brewing in the 11th century, and beer made in Bremen was known throughout northern Europe.
Bremer Braumanufaktur
is reviving this age-old tradition with its Hopfenfänger beers.
The range includes a creamy dark beer with hints of chocolate and roast notes, and a light fruity beer called Ale No. 2, brewed with hops grown on an urban farm in the heart of Bremen. All Hopfenfänger beers boast a truly deep flavour, sophisticated notes and fine bubbles on the palate.
Bremen Blog
Brewing seminar
Anyone hoping to try their hand at making beer can do so in a brewing seminar in Markhalle Acht, where budding brewers learn all about the secrets of making beer. The various Hopfenfänger beers are also available to sample with a small bite to eat.
You might also be interested in...
Beck’s Brewery
Schüttinger brewpub
Union Brewery
Look Behind the Scenes
Osterwiese - Bremen's Spring Fun Fair
Osterwiese - Bremen's Spring Fun Fair
Two weeks of pure enjoyment on the Bürgerweide
The beginning of spring brings not only warmer weather and longer days to Bremen – it also brings the Osterweise: The most famous fair in northern Germany.
Every year, one week before the holiday Karfreitag, Bremen’s biggest spring festival begins: the Osterwiese. There’s tons of attractions and plenty of delicious things to eat, providing the whole family with a guaranteed good time. The numerous rides, booths, and stands ensure there is something for everyone to enjoy themselves. It’s over 50,000 square metres of pure fun! About 500.000 visitors enjoy this event year after year.
Where and When
Bürgerweide, behind the central station.
April 11th to April 27th, 2025
Daily from 2 p.m. to 11 p.m., except on Karfreitag
Easter Carnival
Homepage
You might also be interested in...
Freimarkt
Bremen’s Fifth Season!
Top Events in Bremen
Wuseum - Werder Bremen Museum
Wuseum - Werder Bremen Museum
The Werder Museum in the Weser Stadium
A must for Werder fans: the Wuseum offers an extensive collection of all things Werder Bremen. Also worth a visit for non-Bremen fans.
Cups, Stories, Special Features
The
Werder Bremen
club museum invites you on a green and white journey through time. A look back at 124 years of club history begins with the founding of the club in 1899 and continues through all the highs and lows. The museum provides information about great players, matches and victories. The cinema and multimedia stations allow visitors to relive the most important moments of Werder Bremen and the knowledge quiz is all about proving your Werder know-how!
In addition to the championship trophy and DFB Cup, the little stories off the pitch are particularly enticing. Highlights include exhibits such as the jerseys of Diego Armando Maradona and Horst Dieter Höttges. A very small curiosity has also made it into the Wuseum: the muffle that brought the electricity in the
WESERSTADION
to a standstill in the 2004/2005 season.
Book now
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. club museum
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. club museum
Guided tour for groups
To the Website of the Wuseum
Werder Bremen
The historic football club based on the banks of the Weser river
You might also be interested in...
For those, who are interested in sports
Cycling tours, clubs and much more are waiting for you!
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Food and Drink - Culinary Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Kale with pinkel, labskaus and knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities do sound a bit like something you'd get used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea and connections to rural life forms the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. But the city's long coffee and brewing traditions also leave their mark, as do the regional delicacies cabbage, asparagus and strawberries. It's also impossible to imagine the culinary map of Bremen without the rollo, which was invented in Bremen, and the many sweets made here. Let Bremen melt in your mouth!
But Bremen is not only at the forefront when it comes to production, but also and especially when it comes to savouring. A large number of restaurants, pubs, cafés and manufactories invite you to savour their specialities. Whether it's cabbage and spelt, Labskaus or Knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities take a little getting used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea, the tradition of trade and links to rural life form the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. Whether it's a beer seminar or coffee tasting, a city tour with appetisers or making your own sweets - in Bremen there are plenty of opportunities to actively experience the culinary side of the city.
Schlachte Embankment
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
The delicious foundation of Bremen's town hall
Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. Not only can typical Bremen dishes be savoured here, but this is also where the cellar master poured the first fine wines back in 1409. Today, guests can choose between 650 different, illustrious varieties on over 70 pages of the wine list - praised by connoisseurs as a veritable wine encyclopaedia.
Ratskeller Bremen
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you under the town hall.
Brewing tradition
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 11th century. According to "Markenmonitor Bier", the Beck & Co brewery is the most popular and most popular beer brand in Germany. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing is the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen. A visit to the brewery's former advertising icon, the three-master "Alexander von Humboldt", is a great addition to the brewery tour. Green sails and Joe Cocker's striking "Sail Away" - who doesn't recognise this traditional barque with its eye-catching appearance? She has now found her home harbour at Bremen's Martinianleger. But Beck's is by no means the only beer brewed in Bremen. Craft beers are currently on everyone's lips in the truest sense of the word.
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Alexander von Humboldt
Dining on the world-famous three-master.
Coffee Culture
Who would have thought it: every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen, and almost every second imported bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. So it's no wonder that coffee culture is cultivated in many places in the Weser city and the city's long coffee history is continued on a daily basis. We Bremen residents even have our own word for cultivated coffee enjoyment: kaffeesieren. And in traditional roasting houses such as Lloyd Caffee and Kaffeerösterei August Münchhausen, you can take a look behind the scenes on informative guided tours, gain an insight into the art of roasting and taste full-bodied coffees. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Coffee Culture
Here you can get fresh beans, become a barista or enjoy freshly brewed delicacies.
Coffee Roasteries
Take a look behind the scenes
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Culture and Events in Bremen
Culture and Events
Whether it's shows, theater, concerts, museums, special exhibitions, trade fairs or other highlights - here you can find out which cultural hotspots or dates you shouldn't miss.
In all seasons, sometimes loud, sometimes quiet, colourful, spectacular or provoking contemplation - Bremen offers you a variety of museums, theatres and events which are well worth a visit. From the open-air festival to the special exhibition, from the funfair to the street art event, you will find something for everyone. Get an overview and see which events, museums and stages can be combined with your visit to Bremen.
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Event highlights
The
Breminale
is well-known even outside the region, the
Freimarkt
- the local funfair carnival - is celebrated in Bremen as a fifth season, and gourmet festivals regularly tickle the taste buds of their visitors.
The Christmas market
in the Weser-city is considered one of the most beautiful in Germany. These and many other markets, shows and festivals can be found in the Bremen calendar every year.
Breminale
Five-day culture festival.
Freimarkt
The popular fun fair.
Christmas Markets in Bremen
La Strada
The street is the stage for "La Strada’s" artists
Bremen Carnival
Musikfest Bremen
Museums and Theatre
After an eventful day in Bremen, sit in the vaudeville hall and be thrilled by rousing acrobatics? In the area of theater you will be thrilled by large productions, vaudeville, but also puppet theater, classics, comedies and improvisation. There are also numerous different museums. There is always something going on in the Hanseatic city and something for everyone.
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
You might also be interested in...
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Planning and Booking your Trip
Accommodation in Bremen - Book your Overnight Stay
Home
Tourism
Booking
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Discover hotels and other accommodation options
Sleep well in Bremen! There are many possibilities to stay overnight in Bremen and the surrounding area - there is something for every taste and budget. In the city of short distances, many of the houses are located in the middle of the city. This leaves more time for exciting experiences. By the way, many hotels offer free cancellation until 6 pm on the day of arrival.
Hotels in Bremen
Book your accommodation directly online with Bremen Tourismus
Package Deals
Book your perfect city break with many inclusive services
Unusual Accommodation
Are you looking for a truly unique experience? We've picked out some very unique accommodation for you.
Hotels, holiday apartments and and more at a glance
In our accommodation search you will find a lot of accommodations: From luxury hotels to budget hostels, from rooms in the city to holiday apartments in the country. Apartments, guesthouses, family rooms - everyone can find their dream accommodation here.
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
Guided Tours
Top Events
Gröpelingen
Home
Living
Gröpelingen
Gröpelingen
Multicultural and Colourful - A Port Location With History
Of the three neighbourhoods in the west of Bremen, Gröpelingen is the biggest and the most populated. In the 1960s, numerous migrant workers, especially from Turkey, found work in the factories on the industrial harbour of Gröpelingen. As a result, even today the neighbourhood has many residents with a migration background. Until the 1980s, Gröpelingen was a typical working-class neighbourhood, with the Großwert AG Weser as its largest employer. The closing of the shipyard saw a decline in the housing prices. Cultural diversity and a relatively young population is characteristic of the neighbourhood today. Almost 43 percent of the residents have a migrant background and the proportion of children and youth is 18 percent higher than average.
Impressions of Gröpelingen
Quintessential Gröpelingen
Until the industrialisation of the area and building of the harbour in the 19
th
century, the area of
Gröpelingen
was rather rural. Today it is a mixture of small commercial businesses and residential streets with apartment buildings or row houses. The section of
Lindenhof
has good infrastructure and inexpensive housing, and has started drawing students and artists. There are numerous retail stores, dicounters and specialty shops for your daily shopping needs, as well as the Lindenhofcenter shopping mall. Most of the residents of Gröpelingen live in the section of
Ohlenhof.
In this quiet, residential area you can sometimes find lovely, inexpensive Old-Bremen houses.
In den Wischen
is the least densely populated
:
In the idyllic garden allotment area with lots of water canals, live only eight elderly residents (Status 12/2015). The section of
Oslebshausen
is one of the most culturally diverse neighbourhoods in Bremen and has very inexpensive rental prices. The species-rich Oslebshauser Park impresses with a large, old stock of trees. The correctional facility is also worth seeing. A listed, gothic building, it’s been under construction since 1871. Oslebshausen has its own train station with a fast, direct connection to the Bremen city centre.
Not to Be Missed in Gröpelingen
Data and Facts
Population:
37.083 (Stand 12/2019)
Surface Area:
9,791 km²
Districts
Gröpelingen, Lindenhof, Ohlenhof, In den Wischen, Oslebshausen
Postcodes
28217
28219
28237
28239
28719
Public Transportation
Tram and Bus Lines:
2, 3 and 10; 80 to 82, 90 to 94/95, 680
Night Lines:
N7 and N10
S-Bahn:
Oslebshausen station is on the Bremen-Vegesack regional railway line
Local Office West - District Management
If you have any requests, comments or complaints about your neighbourhood, please contact the Ortsamt West - Stadtteilmanagement.
Weiterlesen
Good to Know!
The green path to the Bremen City: Those who live in Gröpelingen can use the Grünzug West, a "green" bike path that begins in the Oslebshausen section of Gröpelingen and - away from the busy traffic of the main streets - leads to the neighbourhood of Walle and to the Waller Park. Then there’s a short stretch on the streets of Lange Reihe and Steffensweg up to the Elisabethstraße, where the next run of green begins. The "Waller Grün" turns into the Utbremer Grün, and at that end of that, you’ve reached the Hans-Böckler-Strasse. Turn left on to the Doventorscontrecarpe, cross over the Daniel-von-Büren-Straße and you’re already at the Wallanlagen, which passes the city centre, and ends east of town in the Östliche Vorstadt.
You might also be interested in...
Districts of Bremen
Learn more about what you should not miss in the different parts of the city.
Walle
Out and about in Bremen
Lichter der Neustadt - Christmas Market in Neustadt
Christmas Markets
Lichter der Neustadt - Christmas Market in Neustadt
Lichter der Neustadt - Christmas Market in Neustadt
The gateway to Bremen’s Neustadt district is illuminated in a festive glow, offering an enchanting mix of art, culture, music and mulled wine, and also time to get together.
Would you like to enjoy the festive atmosphere but escape from the hustle and bustle of the city centre? Or are you looking for the right present for your nearest and dearest and would like to put something a bit special under the Christmas tree? Then the Neustadt Lights are just the thing. This is where art, culture and music blend together with a Christmas market atmosphere.
When and where?
December 6th to 23rd 2023
Mon-Fri 4 pm to 10 pm
Sat+Sun 2 pm to 10 pm
between the bremer shakespeare company and the Südbad
To the Website
The Neustadt Lights
Art, culture and culinary treats
The Neustadt Lights return, offering art, culture, music, food and mulled wine. This is your chance to discover
imaginative
and unusual
gift ideas
from exhibitors and creative stalls that change on a daily basis. The spacious, brightly lit yurts are a bit different from the normal Christmas market stalls. On offer are handcrafted products and one-off textile, jewellery and design pieces. In addition to a wide range of
children’s activities
, the
entertainment
consists of
a variety of cultural events
featuring street performers, theatre, readings, workshops and live music, plus lots of other surprises. Come along and experience the Neustadt district in a very special way, through activities, encounters and cultural exchange.
You might also be interested in...
Findorffer Winterdorf
Most of the merchants sell only fair trade products, and many stalls offer vegan food.
Christmas Markets in Bremen
All Sights in Bremen at a Glance
Home
Tourism
Sights
Sights in Bremen
Get ready for Sightseeing in Bremen!
1,200 years of tradition and cosmopolitanism shape Bremen, the Hanseatic city on the Weser. The old trading city with its historic centre around the market square exudes the flair of a young metropolis. And yet anyone who embarks on a journey through time with open eyes will witness its long and exciting history. Look forward to Bremen's sights. There is much to discover!
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
The magnificent Weser Renaissance
town hall and the venerable figure of Roland
on the historic
Market Square
remain unmistakable. They have embodied the citizens' will for independence since 1404. The town hall and Roland are protected by UNESCO as a unique world heritage site, but the
Schnoor Quarter
- Bremen's oldest quarter - the unusual architecture of the tradition-steeped
Böttcherstraße
or
St. Peter’s Cathedral
are also unparalleled. You don't even need a city map for a tour of the most important sights. 2,000 brass and steel nails lead from Liebfrauenkirchhof to the Market Square and Schnoor Quarter to Böttcherstraße. And don't forget to pick up a portion of luck at the
Bremen Town Musicians
!
City Hall and Roland
Together with Roland, the town hall is part of Bremen's Unesco World Heritage.
Market Sqaure
Created in 1404, it is one of the oldest public squares in the city.
Böttcherstraße
A street as a work of art in the city centre
Schnoor Quarter
Narrow Alleys and small Houses
Bremen Town Musicians and Ratskeller
The starting point of the route is the Hanseatic city's secret landmark. With its back to the town hall and its face to the Liebfrauenkirchhof, the bronze statue of the
Bremen Town Musicians
designed by Gerhard Marcks presents itself. The fairy tale of the legendary figures is known all over the world and has been as closely associated with Bremen as the town hall and Roland since the Brothers Grimm. Anyone who touches the donkey's legs is granted a wish.
Only a few steps away from the Town Musicians, also on the west side of the Town Hall, is the entrance to Germany's oldest wine cellar. In Bremen's
Ratskeller
, the cellar master has been pouring fine wines since 1409. With 650 different varieties, it houses the largest collection of German wine.
Bremen Town Musicians
Bremen Ratskeller
Plenty of other Sights to Discover...
If you continue to follow the brass and steel nails, your path will lead you from one sight to the next. Whether it's the
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
, the
Paula Modersohn Becker Museum
, the Schütting or the
pigs in Sögestraße
- there's plenty to discover in Bremen's city centre. But there are also numerous highlights beyond the city centre that you should visit. In the
Focke Museum
you can follow in the footsteps of Bremen's history, the
Universum® Bremen
invites you to marvel and participate, while in the
Überseestadt
you can see how past and present blend together between old harbour buildings.
Book now
Get to know Bremen
Get to know Bremen
Package Deal for you
You might also be interested in...
Christmas Markets in Bremen
Maritime Bremen
Best Views in Bremen
Ships in Bremen: The Alexander von Humboldt
The famous green sailing ship "Alexander von Humboldt" has been permanently moored at the Schlachte in Bremen since autumn 2016 and welcomes its guests as a restaurant and catering ship.
Alexander von Humboldt
Visit the website
Jewel on the Weser
A commercial for Beck's beer made the "Alexander von Humboldt" world famous. As a sail training ship, the proud three-master travelled the seas for many years until it was decommissioned in 2011. Now the striking ship with the green sails has found its way back home and is moored as another gem at Schlachte. Speaking of Beck's: Not far away, the brewery can also be visited!
Berths for the Night and Delicacies from the Galley
Right next to the "Admiral Nelson", also known as the "Pannekoekship", 38 bunks are available on the "Alex" for that special overnight experience. On the premises of Bremerhaven-based BVT Brenn- und Verformtechnik Bremen GmbH, the ship was completely gutted and freed of all old wiring and pipes under the supervision of construction managers Jörn Haumüller and Timo Westphal. Some of the wooden panelling could be retained, some parts were refurbished, others redesigned. The large 8-person cabins, the so-called "puma cages", which did not bear their name without good reason, have become comfortable 9 double cabins and 5 four-bed cabins with their own bathroom (incl. washbasin, shower, WC and towel heating), TV and internet connection. The messrooms and service corridor shine in a friendly white that blends with the dark wood of the cheeks and wall panelling to create a harmonious whole.
In addition, the on-board catering offers a monthly changing menu with a selection of fresh, regional and seasonal products. Wines and exquisite drinks are served to match the dishes. The restaurant offers warm cuisine from Wednesday to Sunday from 11:30 - 21:30.
You can also rent the legendary sailor as an event location for private parties. The "Blue Lagoon", the captain's realm and at the same time the heart of the "Alex", which has always been used for official occasions, has been completely preserved in its original style. Small private parties or large celebrations with up to 200 people can be held on the ship and in the adjacent beer garden.
A Short Trip into the History of the "Alexander von Humboldt".
The "Alexander von Humboldt" was built in 1906 at the shipyard AG "Weser" in Bremerhaven. As a steel lightship, she initially sailed under the name "Reserve Sonderburg". At that time she had no sails and shone in red. From 1986 to 1988, on the initiative of Manfred Hövener and with the help of many volunteers, she was converted into the Sail Training Ship "TSG 404" at Motorenwerke Bremerhaven. The hull was given its typical green colour for the first time, the traditional colour of the famous Bremerhaven Rickmers sailing ships, which later, together with the green sails, became the trademark of the barque. At Hinsch & Ruhland in Glückstadt, one of the few sailmakers still specialising in outfitting large square-rigged sailing vessels, the first green sail set was sewn with a total size of 1036 square metres. Among Russian sailors, the barque still bears the nickname "Grasshopper".
After 80 years, she was decommissioned and converted into the distinctive green three-master we know today. From 1988 to 2011, the ship served as a sailing training ship under the name "Alexander von Humboldt".Since her christening as "Alexander von Humboldt", the ship has covered more than 300,000 nautical miles, sailed 10 times across the Atlantic and twice rounded the notorious Cape Horn.
Incidentally, the "Alexander von Humboldt II" has been sailing the oceans since 2011 as the proud successor to the green "Alex".
Book now
Beer Dinner on the "Alexander von Humboldt"
Beer Dinner on the "Alexander von Humboldt"
3-course menu in a rustic atmosphere with beer accompaniment.for groups
Reservation
Reservations under:
Phone 0421 - 38046224 or
info@alex-das-schiff.de
You might also be interested in...
Outdoor Dining
Schlachte Embankment
Maritime Bremen
Activities and Experiences in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Activities and Experiences in Bremen
What can I experience on a city trip in Bremen? From a look behind the scenes of unique manufactories to an excursion to the nearby North Sea and a relaxed get-together on the Schlachte, the city on the Weser has a wide variety of activities in store.
No matter if you are on a short trip to Bremen, if you are spending a longer holiday in the region, if a business trip leaves you time for activities besides your professional duties or if you are at home here and are looking for a change from everyday life: There is a lot to experience in Bremen and its surroundings. Let yourself be inspired and spend a great time in the Hanseatic city.
Tips For Every Season
Tips For Your Short Trip
There is so much to discover in the city on the Weser, so many stories to tell and so many adventures to experience that a short trip is not enough to get to know all the facets of Bremen. Nevertheless, the city of short distances is also a wonderful place for a short trip. Many of the most important sights are only a few minutes' walk away from each other, in vibrant and exciting districts you will get an impression of the local lifestyle. Just let yourself drift and be inspired by our tips for your
short trip to Bremen
.
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
48 Hours in Bremen
Plan your two-day trip
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
Sights in Bremen
Tours and Tickets
Look Behind the Scenes and Experience Bremen Brands
Beck's Beer
,
Mercedes-Benz
or
Airbus
, but also small manufactories that produce delicacies such as sweets, coffee or beer, provide insights behind the scenes. In factory tours, guided tours and tastings, you will learn interesting facts about the various productions and immerse yourself in the worlds of Bremen brands.
Behind the Scenes
Take a look behind the scenes of various manufactories and large companies.
Experience Culinary Delights
Guided tours, tastings and more
Stroll, Rummage, Find Treasures - Shopping in Bremen
Finally getting a few days off? Then maybe there is some time for an extended shopping spree. Bremen is just the right place for that. From varied shopping streets, covered arcades,
shopping
centres and outlets to colourful flea markets and weekly markets - Bremen will delight you with its shopping landscape.
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen
Second Hand Shops in Bremen
Excursions and Activities
How about a
tour of the Weser
, an excursion into the countryside or a
bike tour
? Great destinations for varied activities await you in Bremen directly or in the immediate vicinity. Above all, Bremen's sister city
Bremerhaven
invites you to take a tour. But the artists' resorts of
Fischerhude
and
Worpswede
are also well known far beyond the region's borders and are well worth a visit.
Book now
Overview of Bookable Experiences
Overview of Bookable Experiences
Sustainable Activities
Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
Parks and Recreation
Worpswede
Fischerhude
Bremerhaven
Trip to Bremerhaven
Along the Coast
Day trips to the North Sea coast
Best of Bremen
Home
Living
Best of Bremen
Best of Bremen
Discover many small stories about Bremens uniqueness.
Did you know? The Champions-League-Cup was made in Bremen. Furthermore the Hanseatic City is also the cradle of trade and crafts, as well as the automobile hub of Europe. Decaffeinated coffee, screw studs for soccer shoes and the first fully functional helicopter were invented in this city, which is also the smallest state of Germany. Bremen has many histories to tell, several notable successes and a lot of special features to offer. Here you can learn more about 'Best of Bremen'.
History
Economy
Science
Society
Food & Drink
Culture
Famous Names
Sport
Two Cities, One State
Federal State in numbers
Population
Bremen:
566.000
Bremerhaven:
115.000
(Around
2.8 million
people live in the Bremen/Oldenburg metropolitan region)
Size
Bremen:
Approx. 325 km²
Bremerhaven:
Approx. 94 km²
(You need to travel around
60 km
through Lower Saxony to get from one part of the state to the othe)
Education
Bremen:
Eight
universities in total
(state and private)
Bremerhaven:
One
state
university
With some
20,000
students, the
University
of Bremen
is the state’s largest
higher education institution)
Tourism 2022
Bremen:
1.981.672
overnight stays
Bremerhaven:
386.881
overnight stays
Plan your Accessible Visit to Bremen
Sea Freight
Bremen: Approx.
12,2 Millionen
tonnes handled
Bremerhaven: Approx.
52,4 Millionen
tonnes handled
Economy
Bremen is the German state with the highest industrial
export rate (2022: 55,2 %)
.
In terms of price-adjusted
economic growth
, Bremen was also above the national average (2.8%) in the first half of 2022 compared with the same period of the previous year, at
5.0%
.
Bremen Town Musicians
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen Town Musicians
Bremen Town Musicians
The most well-known landmark of the Hanseatic city are the Bremen Town Musicians.
The Bremen Town Musicians are without doubt the pride and joy of the Hanseatic city. A bronze statue created by Gerhard Marcks in 1953 stands in the heart of Bremen as a tribute to the popular fairytale by the Brothers Grimm. According to the story, a donkey, a dog, a cat and a rooster set off on a journey to Bremen in search of a better life.
Where can I find the Bremen Town Musicians?
Small, but perfectly formed – this saying could have been created with the bronze statue of the Bremen Town Musicians in mind. At two metres tall, the statue of the animals by Gerhard Marcks might not be life-size, but that hasn’t diminished its popularity with locals and visitors alike. The city’s pride and joy can be found
on the left, western side of the town hall
. If you follow Schoppensteel street from the Church of Our Lady towards Domshof, you simply cannot miss the statue.
A little bit of luck
Once you have found the Bremen Town Musicians, you will notice the donkey’s shiny front legs. Touching them is meant to bring good luck, so while you’re there, you should take the opportunity to make a wish or hope for a bit of luck. But make sure that you don’t just rub one leg with only one hand, as you’ll give yourself away as a newcomer to Bremen. There is a saying in Bremen that it’s just one donkey shaking the hand of another!
The tale of the Bremen Town Musicians
The tale of the donkey, dog, cat and rooster has enthralled countless children around the world. Feel like giving it a go?
Once upon a time ...
Read more
A cosmopolitan view has a long tradition in Bremen
The Town Musicians once made their way to Bremen looking for a secure future. The hope for a good life in the beautiful Weserstadt has not only been shared by the current occupants. It has been the hope of many people who have come to Bremen from all parts of Germany and around the world since time immemorial. In the tradition of a cosmopolitan Hanseatic city, Bremen considers immigration as enrichment and has an active, welcoming culture.
Discover the most famous landmark of the Hanseatic city, the Musicians of Bremen, in an entirely new way - because, besides the bronze statue at the Rathaus, there are many other depictions of the world-famous animals.
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
You might also be interested in...
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Old quarter and Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Shopping in Bremen - Discover Different Shopping Districts
Home
Living
Shopping
Shopping in Bremen
Everything you need to know about shopping in Bremen.
Is it high time to go on that wander around the shops? Do you just need a new pair of shoes, or simply want to browse through what's on offer? You can do all of that in Bremen! With its multi-faceted shopping streets, covered passageways and stylish shopping centres, colourful flea markets and authentic weekly markets, our Hanseatic city has an almost infinite variety of shopping experiences. Be inspired by our shopping tips and discover shops you never knew existed. You'll find eclectic boutiques and clusters of specialist traders alongside famous international stores.
Shopping in Different City Districts
Do you prefer shopping in creative, idiosyncratic boutiques or are you inspired by artisanal crafts? You're sure to find just the right unique, hand-crafted items and gifts in the myriad of unique shops located in Bremen's shopping districts, outside the city centre. Have a closer look at the diverse areas of the city!
Sustainable Purchasing
Shopping with sustainability in mind is becoming ever more popular in our Hanseatic city. In addition to buying the regional products on offer at the weekly markets, you can also choose to shop in any number of zero waste stores or sell your clothes to one of the pre-loved clothing shops. You might even find a hidden treasure at one of the flea markets.
Shopping for Something Special
Are you searching for accessories for your bike or dumbbells for working out at home? Bremen has all the specialist shops you could need for your hobbies and leisure pursuits. Browse through the shelves in Bremen's independent shops or be inspired by the range on offer in our major stores. We've put together a few tips you might find interesting here.
Shopping Arcades in Bremen
Lloyd Passage
The
Lloyd Passage
is home to around 30 shops and two major departments stores. Today, it's only the name that is a reminder that these businesses occupy the former site of Lloyd’s North German shipping operations. Since 2003, many VIPs have left behind their hand prints (cast in bronze) as a memento of their visit to the Passage. Having a connection to Bremen was the requirement for this memorial, which is why you'll see hand prints from celebrities such as comedian Hape Kerkeling and satirist Jan Böhmermann.
Domshof-Passage and Katharinen-Passage
These are two covered shopping arcades, home to more than 50 shops in the heart of Bremen's city centre. Leave your car nearby, in the Katharinenklosterhof, and start your shopping expedition in the
Domshof-Passage
and the
Katharinen-Passage
.
Shopping Centres
If you enjoy strolling around shopping centres, a visit to Bremen's Huchting, Walle or Osterholz districts is an absolute must. In the centres there you'll find an excellent selection of shops, chain stores and a variety of food courts, all with free parking.
More Suggestions to Round Off Your Shopping Trip
Extended Opening Hours
Late-Night Shopping and Sunday Opening
Cafés in Bremen
Come and enjoy the many different cafés in Bremen
Hotels - Book Directly Online
Discover Bremen's diverse range of hotels: from design hotels to houseboats.
City Map
Here you'll find orientation
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Get to know great cafés in Bremen, discover roasting houses, take guided tours and learn interesting facts about Bremen's coffee history.
Every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen and almost every second foreign bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. Maintaining the coffee culture of Bremen contributes to the city's long coffee history on a daily basis. In Bremen, there is even a word of its own for enjoying coffee: “kaffeesieren”. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Freshly Roasted
Check out the coffee roasteries in Bremen.
Kaffeesieren
Enjoy coffee and cake the Bremen way.
The History of Coffee in Bremen
Bremen, the Coffee Capital
Become a Coffee Professional - Barista Courses, Seminars and More
Best Coffee Beans
Check out Bremen's coffee shops.
Cup2Date & RECUP – A Sustainable Alternative for Coffee to Go
Cup2Date is a reusable cup system with a deposit that four students of Bremen founded to reduce the amount of waste generated by the coffee-to-go trend. In 2020 the company became part of RECUP as both businesses follow the same vision. How does it work? It's simple. Buy your coffee at one of the participating retailers, deposit one euro and return the empty cup later to one of the participating addresses. Here you can get your
RECUP coffee
.
Fair-Trade-Coffee
Fair trade means cooperation at eye level: transparency, mutual respect and dialogue. In this way small sized overseas producers can position themselves in global trade and build long-term trade relationships. We are showing you where to buy fair trade coffee in Bremen.
Suspended Coffee
The concept: pay for two coffees and drink only one - those who can afford it order and pay for an additional coffee or meal in advance meant for someone else who cannot afford it. There are also some participating cafés in Bremen:
Café Lisboa
Friedrich-Ebert-Straße 121, 28199 Bremen
KUKOON
Buntentorsteinweg 29, 28201 Bremen
Radieschen
Buntentorsteinweg 65, 28201 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Liquid Pleasures
Bremen has something for every connoisseur.
Tea from Bremen
Everything about Education in Bremen
Home
Education
Everything about Education in Bremen
School, college or university, training, further education and more - information about education in Bremen.
Universitys & Colleges
School
Extracurricular Places of Learning in Bremen and Bremerhaven
Recognition of Foreign Degrees and Qualifications
MINTforum
Tutoring
Schüttinger Pub Brewery in Böttcherstrasse - Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Schüttinger Pub Brewery Bremen
Schüttinger Pub Brewery Bremen
The Schüttinger is not only Bremen's oldest pub, it is also the city's oldest brewery.
The Schüttinger inn brewery stands for drinkable beer, rustic food and conviviality at long wooden tables. But that is not all. Craft beer is also produced here.
The Bremen tradition of the house brewery was revived in 1990. To this day,
Schüttinger
brews its own drinkable, bottom-fermented and naturally cloudy beer without preservatives or stabilisers. This makes the Schüttinger not only the oldest pub brewery in the Hanseatic city, but also the oldest brewery in Bremen.
Exactly two types of beer are served here, namely pale and dark. On special occasions, the master brewer also creates other types of beer. The beer is also available to take away in bottles - bottled, sealed and labelled by hand directly on site.
Book now
Breweryparty with Dinner
Breweryparty with Dinner
at Schüttinger
You might also be interested in...
Beck’s Brewery
Union Brewery
Bremer Braumanufaktur
Look Behind the Scenes
Maritime Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Maritime Bremen
Living and enjoying life on the river - the Weser has not only shaped Bremen's history, it also creates the special ambience of the Hanseatic city.
As a Hanseatic city, Bremen looks back on a long seafaring tradition. This history is recognisable everywhere in the city. Numerous museums focus their exhibitions on Bremen as a port city. Along the Weser you will not only feel the sea air, you will also discover numerous ships worth seeing. Some of them invite you on excursions, while others offer unusual overnight accommodation. Culinary delights await you not only by the water, but also on it. Let us inspire you to experience the wonderful flair of the Hanseatic city!
Ships and Ferries
Picturesque Harbours and Marinas to Stay in Bremen
Well worth visiting: Old Weser harbours throughout Bremen that connect seafaring traditions and modern use as a marina. All over Bremen leisure captains can find a suitable berth for their vessel. Bridging the gap between historical seafaring traditions and old harbour buildings on the one hand and current forms of use on the other, several old harbour areas now serve as marinas and picturesque spots for instagrammable sunsets.
Trips and Tours on Ships and Boats
Schlachte Embankment
Experience the Town History and the History of the Harbour
Focke-Museum
Übersee Museum
Hafenmuseum
German Maritime Museum
The River Weser
Häfen District
Überseestadt
Water Sports
Swimming Pools in Bremen
Beaches in and around Bremen
Uferaue Habenhausen
Durch die "naturverträgliche Naherholung" ist in Habenhausen ein Sandufer entstanden.
Café Sand
Strandweg 106
Werdersee
For joggers, walkers, swimmers or water sports enthusiasts - the Werdersee is always worth a visit. The central location, around 54.5 hectares of lake surface and excellent water quality offer the best conditions for local recreation on and in the water.
Weserfähre
Saisonaler Fährverkehr von Mai bis September
Vegesack - Lemwerder
Ganzjähriger Fährverkehr abhängig von Verkehrsaufkommen, vorfahrtsberechtigtem Schiffsverkehr, Betankung, höherer Gewalt wie beispielsweise Eisgang, Hoch- oder Niedrigwasser und Nebel sowie Betriebsstörungen und besonderen Anlässen
Sielwallfähre
Saisonaler Fährverkehr von März bis Oktober zwischen Osterdeich und Café Sand
Farge - Berne
Ganzjähriger Fährverkehr abhängig von Verkehrsaufkommen, vorfahrtsberechtigtem Schiffsverkehr, Betankung, höherer Gewalt wie beispielsweise Eisgang, Hoch- oder Niedrigwasser und Nebel sowie Betriebsstörungen und besonderen Anlässen.
Blumenthal - Motzen
Ganzjähriger Fährverkehr abhängig von Verkehrsaufkommen, vorfahrtsberechtigtem Schiffsverkehr, Betankung, höherer Gewalt wie beispielsweise Eisgang, Hoch- oder Niedrigwasser und Nebel sowie Betriebsstörungen und besonderen Anlässen.
Überseestadt und Europahafen
Wo noch vor einigen Jahren Baumwolle, Kaffee und Gewürze lagerten, entsteht heute eins der spannendsten Kunst-, Kultur- und Dienstleistungszentren Bremens.
Torfhafen Findorfff
Findorffallee
Neustädter Häfen
Am linken Weserufer liegt der Ortsteil Neustädter Häfen. Bestehend aus dem Becken II, dem Lankenauer Höft und dem Wendebecken Neustadt wird hier verladen, was nicht in einen Container passt.
Industriehäfen
Die maritime Atmosphäre Bremens lässt sich besonders gut im Ortsteil Industriehäfen erleben. Sowohl zu Fuß, mit dem Rad oder motorisiert erkunden Sie den Weg bis zur Schleuse, von wo aus Sie einen tollen Ausblick über die Hafenanlage genießen. Besonders bei Hochwasser dürfen Sie mit imposanten Frachtern rechnen.
U-Boot-Bunker Valentin
Der U-Boot-Bunker-Valentin ist die Ruine einer U-Boot-Werft der deutschen Kriegsmarine aus dem Zweiten Weltkrieg. Von 1943 bis 1945 wurden hier Tausende Zwangsarbeiter eingesetzt. Seit 2011 wird das Areal zum "Denkort Bunker Valentin" umgewandelt. Führungen vermitteln einen Überblick über die Geschichte des Ortes.
Hafenmuseum Speicher XI
Am Speicher XI 1
Entdecken Sie im historischen Baumwollspeicher 120 Jahre Bremer Hafengeschichte: Von "A" wie "Anbiet" bis "Z" wie "Zuschüttung" wird die Entwicklung vom Überseehafen zur Überseestadt anschaulich erlebbar.
Museumshafen Vegesack
Am Vegesacker Hafen
Focke Museum
Schwachhauser Heerstraße 240
Übersee-Museum
Bahnhofsplatz 13
Schiff der Jugendherberge Bremen "Die Weser"
Hotelschiff Perle
Alexander von Humboldt
Yachthafen Hemelingen
Die freie Marina des Wassersport-Zentrums Oberweser hält einige Gastliegeplätze für Besucher bereit.
Marina Europahafen
Ob dauerhaft oder als Gast - in der Marina Europahafen liegt ihr Schiff in einem modernen Yachthafen geschützt vor Wellenschlag und Strömungen.
Marina Bremen
In unmittelbarer Nähe zur Innenstadt liegt ihr Boot an der Unteren Schlachte.
You might also be interested in...
Swimming in Bremen
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Living in Bremen
Home
Living
Living
Learn more about living in the hanseatic city!
The Bremen Way of Life
Cycling, having a leisurely coffee, a cabbage tour in freezing temperatures, enjoying handmade delicacies, spending time in nature - all this and much more is part of Bremen's way of life. Let us inspire you to take a little time for the good things.
Bremen for Everyone
Whether you live with your family in the Hanseatic city, have recently arrived in Bremen, are studying here, are looking for information about accessibility in Bremen or whether you are interested in women's political issues or would like to get involved in charitable work - we have just the right pages for you.
Explore the City and its Neighbourhoods
Left and right of the Weser, close to the city or in a rural idyll, pulsating cultural hotspots or family-friendly neighbourhoods - browse through our 23 district portraits and discover new corners. Or do you want to get to know Bremen in general first? Then we'll help you get a first overview. On our seasons pages you can also find out what's going on in spring, summer, autumn and winter. And with numerous digital experiences, we deliver Bremen directly to your living room.
For those, who are interested in sports
Cycling tours, clubs and much more are waiting for you!
Shopping
Visit the different shopping districts in Bremen.
Residing
Bürgerpark Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Parks and Recreation
Bürgerpark Bremen
Bürgerpark Bremen
Bremen's green oasis for all nature lovers and outdoor enthusiasts
The Bürgerpark, together with the adjacent Stadtwald in the north, is Bremen's largest contiguous park. Bremen's citizens greatly appreciate their 200-hectare green oasis with its numerous leisure facilities, very close to the main railway station.
Activities in the Bürgerpark
More Information about the Bürgerpark
150 Years of Bürgerpark
Construction work on Bürgerpark began on 28 June 1866. The Bürgerpark Association celebrated the 150th anniversary in 2016 with numerous events.
The Legend of the Bürgerpark
According to an old legend, Countess Emma von Lesum donated the area to the citizens of Bremen in 1032 because they complained that there was not enough grazing land for their cattle. The good-natured countess declared that the citizens would receive as much land as a man could walk around from sunrise to sunset. However, since her brother-in-law Duke Benno of Saxony was afraid of losing his inheritance, he chose a physically impaired man for this task. Contrary to his expectations, however, he was able to walk around a whole 400 hectares; the current area of the Bürgerpark.
Whether you believe this legend is up to you!
Impressions of the Bürgerpark
You might also be interested in...
Walk in the Bürgerpark
Parks and Recreation
Shakespeare in the Park
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Dolce Vita in the far north? Definitely! The sweet life awaits you at Schlachte - Bremen's gastro hotspot and promenade on the Weser.
The Schlachte - located in the heart of Bremen directly along the Weser - has seen a lot in its 800-year history and has displayed many different faces. As a former waterfront harbour, it has been transformed into today's maritime gastronomic mile with numerous restaurants, bars and pubs. Stroll along the Weser and enjoy one of the many local beer gardens.
Summer-Feeling and Relaxation
Especially during summer, the Schlachte is a popular get-together for Bremen residents and visitors of all generations. The first Sunday in March is traditionally the opening of the season for the summer gardens and beer gardens on the Schlachte. From here and also during walks up to the Osterdeich or in the direction of
Überseestadt
, you can enjoy the wonderful atmosphere on the Weser. You can let your gaze wander over the river and have a great view of the many adjacent
ships
, such as the legendary
Alexander von Humboldt
.
Impressions of the Schlachte
Magical Winter
Even in the cold season, the Schlachte does not lose its very special charm: in December, the annual Schlachte Magic casts its wintry and mystical spell on its visitors. At this very special Christmas market you can expect treats, arts and crafts, jugglers, pure entertainment and a very magical atmosphere. As dusk falls, the historical maritime medieval market is bathed in atmospheric blue light. And the adjacent ships will also shine in festive lighting. You can hear the vendors haggling over every penny, while the scent of spices, sweet and savoury food tickles your nostrils and mead, mocha or hot apples warm your heart in the freezing temperatures.
The Christmas Market
The Schlachte - Past and Present
The term "Schlachte", first mentioned in a document in 1250, goes back to the Low German word "Slait" and referres to the pile-like structures used to reinforce the banks of the Weser in the 13th century. For many centuries, maritime trade flourished and even in old harbour times there were many taverns and hostels on the Schlachte. They were mainly frequented by the dock workers and served as a meeting place for wages until the increasing silting up of the Middle and Lower Weser put an end to the hustle and bustle at the riverside harbour in the late 19th century. It was not until Expo 2000 that the Schlachte was completely redesigned. A great fortune for the people of the city and its visitors, who can now enjoy the maritime flair of the Weser promenade to the full.
A Look into the Past
Old Habour Takes on New Function
Even though the days of the Schlachte as a waterfront harbour have long been numbered, the Martinianleger still goes on great journeys today: the Weser round trips enjoy great popularity. Harbour tours, "Kohl und Pinkel" tours on the water, "Weser-Bord-Partys", trips to Bremerhaven, Oldenburg or Verden - Bremen and the surrounding area can be easily explored by water. And if you're planning a leisurely
bike tour
afterwards, you can simply take your bike along on many tours.
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Maritime Bremen
Ships on the Weser
Trips and tours on boats and ships
Roland Statue Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Roland Statue Bremen
Roland Statue Bremen
Bremen's "Statue of Liberty" - a symbol of trading rights and freedom since 1404.
In 1404, the stone Roland was erected in front of Bremen's town hall. From the very beginning, it was a symbolic figure for the city's "freedoms" and rights. Since 2004, Bremen's landmark has shared a place on UNESCO's World Heritage List with the well worth seeing Town Hall.
The most Important Information at a Glance:
Knight statue on the market square
Built in 1404
Height: 10 metres
UNESCO World Heritage Site
Bremen's Landmark
One of Bremen's best-known landmarks is the 10-metre-high Roland statue in front of the historic town hall on the market square. Bremen's Roland has stood guard over the city's freedom and rights since 1404. It is not only popular with Bremen residents and tourists, UNESCO experts have declared it the most representative and beautiful Roland monument in Germany. The Roland statue and the town hall have been on the UNESCO World Heritage List since July 2004.
Profile
The Legend of Emma von Lesum - A short Version
The widowed Countess Emma von Lesum was considered pious and charitable. Her kindness of heart was known among the burghers, a quality that caused her brother-in-law Duke Benno of Saxony to worry about his inheritance.
On one occasion, the countess granted two burghers more grazing land for their cattle, "as much as a man could walk around in an hour". Her cunning brother-in-law chose a beggar for this measuring march, who could not move without outside help. Countess Emma, however, calmly put her hand on his head, prayed and told him to try. He did not succeed in walking, but he crawled. The townspeople retreated in disappointment, having little hope that the beggar could "crawl" a particularly large grazing area. However, the "cripple" crawled steadily on and in the evening they were surprised at the large area. Today we still know this area as Bürgerweide. The people of Bremen did not forget the "cripple" and honoured him at the feet of Roland.
You might also be interested in...
Market Square
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
An entire area in transition - experience a harbour district rich in tradition, anchored in the present and facing towards the future!
Überseestadt, where once ships passed by and cargo was unloaded, is a new addition to Bremen’s cityscape. Following the gradual decline of the maritime economy, a new vibrant and innovative quarter has been taking shape over recent years.
Lots of Variety in Überseestadt
In Überseestadt, newly revitalised, huge old warehouses made of red brick stand in exciting contrast to modern architecture. A mix that couldn't be more diverse in its use. Creative and innovative start-ups work next door to traditional companies from the maritime industry. Moreover numerous parks and outdoor facilities invite you to relax or be active outside. Here you'll also find creative artists and manufacturers, who have turned their passion into a profession. The gastronomic offer ranging from cafés to restaurants is just as diverse as the choice of housing, which provides homes for a variety of people, from socially financed housing to high-priced lofts. All of this takes place in front of the magnificent scenery of the Weser and its harbour basins.
Book now
Town Musicians Express
Town Musicians Express
Drive along the Weser to Überseestadt.
One of the Largest Urban Development Projects in Europe
In 2000, the Bremen Senate laid the foundation for this exciting development by approving the concept for the restructuring of the old port areas. Since then, Überseestadt has been in a constant state of transformation - numerous
projects
have already been implemented, in many places construction and work is currently in progress, while elsewhere areas are still waiting for their future use. The designs always include unbuilt green and open spaces. In this way, many attractions have already been created in Überseestadt that not only please the residents, but also attract visitors from all over Bremen to the quarter.
Waller Sand and Molenturm
One example for the many projects is the Waller Sand, a beach at the turning basin in the north-west of Überseestadt. Where until a few years ago a barren stone landscape sat, an inviting and varied leisure and local recreation area was created. Overlooking the mighty grain transport facility, you can enjoy the beach feeling, created by a water playground, volleyball courts and maritime dune landscapes. However, bathing is not allowed because of the shipping traffic. A small, lovingly planted walkway leads you directly to the pretty Molenturm - one of the city's most popular viewpoints and photo spots, which offers you a perfect view of the sunset over the Weser when the weather is right.
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
The Überseeinsel - The Überseestadt Continues to Grow
The Überseeinsel, located at the entrance to Überseestadt and thus in the immediate vicinity of Bremen's city centre, is set to become a crowd-puller similar to the Waller Sand. Planned together with citizens, the former Kellogg site is to become a green urban quarter with little car traffic, which will continue the diverse mix of uses in Überseestadt and, equipped with a promenade, green spaces and a so-called sun catcher's bay, will certainly be the destination of many visitors.
Die Gemüsewerft auf der Überseeinsel
Strolling around the Europahafen
Not far from the Überseeinsel, the Europahafen is already a meeting place for all those who want to enjoy the maritime atmosphere as well as the exciting combination of tradition and modernity. Whether you take a stroll, sit on one of the outdoor terraces of the local restaurants or bring along an after-work beer - the Europahafen is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy the beautiful view of Bremen's lifeline.
Moreover new buildings are currently being built at the head of the Europahafen that will shape the city's skyline just as many buildings in the Überseestadt already have. The Weser Tower stands out among these buildings - after all, the skyscraper designed by architect Helmut Jahn is Bremen's tallest office building.
Port Economy in the Midst of New Utilisation Concepts
While all these exciting innovations are taking place, the busy operations of historically grown commercial and port structures in Überseestadt also continue. In the timber, factory and grain harbour, interested visitors can still observe large seagoing ships loading and unloading. It is still a logistical centre for cargo ships. Mainly animal food, grain, flour and frozen products are handled here, rarely also containers.
Blick über die Weser auf den Hafen
A Creative Environment for the Finest Craftsmanship
In the midst of all the innovative buildings, ideas and projects in Überseestadt, numerous passionate producers have found the right environment for their very special manufactories. Birgitta Schulze van Loon distils and produces fine spirits directly on site at the Europahafen with her brand "
Piekfeine Brände
". Handmade Elisen gingerbread is on the menu at the glass gingerbread factory of
Manke & Coldewey
. On the Überseeinsel, the makers of the "Hopfenfänger" beer have dedicated themselves to the art of brewing at the
Bremer Braumanufaktur
. At both
Lloyd Coffee
and
Cross Coffee
, everything revolves around the coffee bean. World-famous trophies such as the Champions League trophy are made by
Koch & Bergfeld Corpus Silbermanufaktur
.
Culture and Leisure
The contrast-filled Überseestadt is definitely worth a visit. Not least because you will find an exciting range of cultural and fun activities here that you should definitely explore. In Speicher XI, for example, the
Hafenmuseum
and the
Speicherbühne
have found a creative environment for their work. The
GOP Varieté Theatre
has built its own stage at the southern end of the quarter, while the
Hafen Revue Theatre
has taken up residence in an existing building. Right next door, the
HafenRummel
awaits you with an 11-station game trail set in the harbour ambience of the 1950s. The
SchwarzLichtHof
, an indoor mini-golf course, invites you to play in the dark and under black light. Fans of oldtimer cars should definitely check out the Centre for Automotive Culture and Mobility in
Schuppen Eins
. Skate and sports enthusiasts will find their personal paradise in Überseepark.
You might also be interested in...
Lloyd Caffee
Hafenmuseum
Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Culture and Events in Bremen
Culture and Events
Whether it's shows, theater, concerts, museums, special exhibitions, trade fairs or other highlights - here you can find out which cultural hotspots or dates you shouldn't miss.
In all seasons, sometimes loud, sometimes quiet, colourful, spectacular or provoking contemplation - Bremen offers you a variety of museums, theatres and events which are well worth a visit. From the open-air festival to the special exhibition, from the funfair to the street art event, you will find something for everyone. Get an overview and see which events, museums and stages can be combined with your visit to Bremen.
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Event highlights
The
Breminale
is well-known even outside the region, the
Freimarkt
- the local funfair carnival - is celebrated in Bremen as a fifth season, and gourmet festivals regularly tickle the taste buds of their visitors.
The Christmas market
in the Weser-city is considered one of the most beautiful in Germany. These and many other markets, shows and festivals can be found in the Bremen calendar every year.
Breminale
Five-day culture festival.
Freimarkt
The popular fun fair.
Christmas Markets in Bremen
La Strada
The street is the stage for "La Strada’s" artists
Bremen Carnival
Musikfest Bremen
Museums and Theatre
After an eventful day in Bremen, sit in the vaudeville hall and be thrilled by rousing acrobatics? In the area of theater you will be thrilled by large productions, vaudeville, but also puppet theater, classics, comedies and improvisation. There are also numerous different museums. There is always something going on in the Hanseatic city and something for everyone.
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
You might also be interested in...
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Planning and Booking your Trip
Ships in Bremen: The Alexander von Humboldt
The famous green sailing ship "Alexander von Humboldt" has been permanently moored at the Schlachte in Bremen since autumn 2016 and welcomes its guests as a restaurant and catering ship.
Alexander von Humboldt
Visit the website
Jewel on the Weser
A commercial for Beck's beer made the "Alexander von Humboldt" world famous. As a sail training ship, the proud three-master travelled the seas for many years until it was decommissioned in 2011. Now the striking ship with the green sails has found its way back home and is moored as another gem at Schlachte. Speaking of Beck's: Not far away, the brewery can also be visited!
Berths for the Night and Delicacies from the Galley
Right next to the "Admiral Nelson", also known as the "Pannekoekship", 38 bunks are available on the "Alex" for that special overnight experience. On the premises of Bremerhaven-based BVT Brenn- und Verformtechnik Bremen GmbH, the ship was completely gutted and freed of all old wiring and pipes under the supervision of construction managers Jörn Haumüller and Timo Westphal. Some of the wooden panelling could be retained, some parts were refurbished, others redesigned. The large 8-person cabins, the so-called "puma cages", which did not bear their name without good reason, have become comfortable 9 double cabins and 5 four-bed cabins with their own bathroom (incl. washbasin, shower, WC and towel heating), TV and internet connection. The messrooms and service corridor shine in a friendly white that blends with the dark wood of the cheeks and wall panelling to create a harmonious whole.
In addition, the on-board catering offers a monthly changing menu with a selection of fresh, regional and seasonal products. Wines and exquisite drinks are served to match the dishes. The restaurant offers warm cuisine from Wednesday to Sunday from 11:30 - 21:30.
You can also rent the legendary sailor as an event location for private parties. The "Blue Lagoon", the captain's realm and at the same time the heart of the "Alex", which has always been used for official occasions, has been completely preserved in its original style. Small private parties or large celebrations with up to 200 people can be held on the ship and in the adjacent beer garden.
A Short Trip into the History of the "Alexander von Humboldt".
The "Alexander von Humboldt" was built in 1906 at the shipyard AG "Weser" in Bremerhaven. As a steel lightship, she initially sailed under the name "Reserve Sonderburg". At that time she had no sails and shone in red. From 1986 to 1988, on the initiative of Manfred Hövener and with the help of many volunteers, she was converted into the Sail Training Ship "TSG 404" at Motorenwerke Bremerhaven. The hull was given its typical green colour for the first time, the traditional colour of the famous Bremerhaven Rickmers sailing ships, which later, together with the green sails, became the trademark of the barque. At Hinsch & Ruhland in Glückstadt, one of the few sailmakers still specialising in outfitting large square-rigged sailing vessels, the first green sail set was sewn with a total size of 1036 square metres. Among Russian sailors, the barque still bears the nickname "Grasshopper".
After 80 years, she was decommissioned and converted into the distinctive green three-master we know today. From 1988 to 2011, the ship served as a sailing training ship under the name "Alexander von Humboldt".Since her christening as "Alexander von Humboldt", the ship has covered more than 300,000 nautical miles, sailed 10 times across the Atlantic and twice rounded the notorious Cape Horn.
Incidentally, the "Alexander von Humboldt II" has been sailing the oceans since 2011 as the proud successor to the green "Alex".
Book now
Beer Dinner on the "Alexander von Humboldt"
Beer Dinner on the "Alexander von Humboldt"
3-course menu in a rustic atmosphere with beer accompaniment.for groups
Reservation
Reservations under:
Phone 0421 - 38046224 or
info@alex-das-schiff.de
You might also be interested in...
Outdoor Dining
Schlachte Embankment
Maritime Bremen
Attractions in the city suitable for the whole family.
If you're going on an excursion with children, you need a few things in your luggage: drinks, a few snacks for the road and a strong set of nerves for when the good mood fades. But above all, you need a programme that is fun for the little ones! Bremen has many attractions that are suitable for children. We have put together a few tips for you.
The Bürgerpark
One of the most beloved parks in Bremen is the
Bürgerpark
. The Bürgerpark offers families not only fresh air and open space but also playgrounds, a small zoo, mini golf course, and rowboat rentals. Ship ahoy!
Puppet Theatre
In the heart of the hip Bremer neighbourhood, "
The Viertel
", the puppet theatre "
Mensch, Puppe
!" has its home. The theatre has a family programme with fairy tales and other stories beautifully staged for children from the age of three up.
Café Sand
A popular outing in the summer months is
Café Sand
. Enjoy a holiday in the sun in the middle of the city replete with a sandy beach, a restaurant with sundeck terrace, and a beer garden. The shallow water, perfect for splashing in, and the wide band of sand, ideal for building sand castles, make this a perfect spot for families with small children. You can board the Hal Över
ferry
to Café Sand at
Osterdeich
.
The Universum ® Bremen
The whale-shaped Science Center,
Universum® Bremen
, invites you to come discover, research, and experiment. The permanent exhibition focuses on the themes humans, nature, and technology. Whether young or old, the curious shouldn’t miss this Bremen attraction. You’ll happily spend hours here. The Universum makes for a great family outing.
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Travel back through three hundred years of Bremen history at the
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
from the 17
th
to the early 20
th
century. Performers dressed in historical costumes lead you through the exhibition and bring Bremen characters of bygone days to life. The tour takes about an hour. The Geschichtenhaus is in the
Schnoor Quarter
, Bremen’s oldest district.
Tour of the Werder Stadium
Here the dream becomes reality for Werder fans, young and old: To sit on the trainer’s bench and feel the presence of team! You can also explore the inside of the stadium, the visiting-team changing room, the press conference room, and the VIP area. The
tour
takes about 1½ to 2 hours and ends in the
Wuseum
.
Stadtbibliothek (City Library)
The central library and the neighbourhood branch libraries offer two programmes for families with children. "Gedichte für Wichte" (Poems for Little Ones) for families with children younger than three years old and "BilderBuchKino" (Story Book Cinema) for children four years and older. Both are free of charge. For information and dates check the
Stadtbibliothek Bremen
website.
HafenRummel
Carnival atmosphere and harbour ambience of the 1950s: Fun and games for all ages can be had at the
HafenRummel
in Bremen’s
Überseestadt
. On an obstacle course with 11 stations, you can try your hand at old carnival games and collect points. Who knows? Perhaps with a little luck and some talent, you could be the high scorer! The obstacle course takes about 90 minutes to complete.
Torfkahnfahrt (Peat Boat trip)
On a peat barge trip you can get to know the former wetland and moorland areas between the Bremen
Blockland
and Teufelsmoor from the water. You start at the peat harbour in
Findorff
and learn a lot of interesting facts about peat cutting in former times on board. The duration of the excursion depends on the route chosen.
The Stadtteilfarm Huchting (Neighborhood farm)
Whether cooking or baking, caring for and feeding animals, gardening, making a fire or simply playing -
the Stadtteilfarm Huchting
has a lot to offer children and families. Ponies, sheep, mini pigs, alpacas and many other animals find a home here. Visitors of all ages are welcome at the farm during opening hours.
Die Thüringer Waldziege "Arti" auf der Stadtteilfarm Huchting.
Jump House
The JUMP House in Bremen has been open since September 2018. The trampoline park in the Waterfront shopping centre invites you to action-packed fun and big jumps! 13 varied attractions await you on an area of around 6,000 square metres: From the large main field with almost 100 connected trampolines, to trampoline basketball and dodgeball, foam pit and air cushions to jump in, to spectacular ninja courses. Due to high demand, the Jump House strongly recommends online booking!
Olbers Planetarium Bremen
Where once seafaring students were taught, today you can discover the starry sky over Bremen. The nature experience room is located in a dome where projectors create the illusion of a starry night. Young and old get the impression of looking directly into the sky and discovering comets and shooting stars. Find out about the current programme on the
Olbers Planetarium website
.
Sportgarten
The
Sportgarten e.V.
is a youth and leisure sports facility open to the public. It offers high-quality exercise areas for more than 20 sports, such as football, hockey, skating, basketball, climbing, riding and trampolining.
Skater im Sportgarten
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Bürgerpark
Bürgerpark, Bremen.
Puppet Theatre, Puppe
Schildstraße 21, 28203 Bremen.
Café Sand
Strandweg 106, 28201 Bremen.
Universum Bremen
Wiener Straße 1A, 28359 Bremen
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Wüstestätte 10, 28195 Bremen.
Werder-Stadionführung
Franz-Böhmert-Straße 1, 28205 Bremen.
Stadtbibliothek Bremen
Am Wall 201, 28195 Bremen.
HafenRummel
Am Speicher XI 11, 28217 Bremen.
Torfkahnfahrt
Torfhafen, 28215 Bremen.
The Stadtteilfarm Huchting
Am Sodenmatt 15, 28259 Bremen.
Jump House
AG-Weser-Straße 3, 28237 Bremen.
Olbers Planetarium Bremen
Werderstraße 73, 28199 Bremen.
Sportgarten e.V.
Osterdeich 800, 28205 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Shopping for Children
Here are some tips for where you can buy children’s clothing, toys and other items in Bremen.
Excursions
Days out and the surrounding region.
Freimarkt
Bremen’s Fifth Season!
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Get to know great cafés in Bremen, discover roasting houses, take guided tours and learn interesting facts about Bremen's coffee history.
Every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen and almost every second foreign bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. Maintaining the coffee culture of Bremen contributes to the city's long coffee history on a daily basis. In Bremen, there is even a word of its own for enjoying coffee: “kaffeesieren”. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Freshly Roasted
Check out the coffee roasteries in Bremen.
Kaffeesieren
Enjoy coffee and cake the Bremen way.
The History of Coffee in Bremen
Bremen, the Coffee Capital
Become a Coffee Professional - Barista Courses, Seminars and More
Best Coffee Beans
Check out Bremen's coffee shops.
Cup2Date & RECUP – A Sustainable Alternative for Coffee to Go
Cup2Date is a reusable cup system with a deposit that four students of Bremen founded to reduce the amount of waste generated by the coffee-to-go trend. In 2020 the company became part of RECUP as both businesses follow the same vision. How does it work? It's simple. Buy your coffee at one of the participating retailers, deposit one euro and return the empty cup later to one of the participating addresses. Here you can get your
RECUP coffee
.
Fair-Trade-Coffee
Fair trade means cooperation at eye level: transparency, mutual respect and dialogue. In this way small sized overseas producers can position themselves in global trade and build long-term trade relationships. We are showing you where to buy fair trade coffee in Bremen.
Suspended Coffee
The concept: pay for two coffees and drink only one - those who can afford it order and pay for an additional coffee or meal in advance meant for someone else who cannot afford it. There are also some participating cafés in Bremen:
Café Lisboa
Friedrich-Ebert-Straße 121, 28199 Bremen
KUKOON
Buntentorsteinweg 29, 28201 Bremen
Radieschen
Buntentorsteinweg 65, 28201 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Liquid Pleasures
Bremen has something for every connoisseur.
Tea from Bremen
Bremen for Culture Enthusiasts - Tips for your Visit
Home
Tourism
Bremen for every occasion
Culture enthusiasts
Bremen for Culture Enthusiasts
Find out about Bremen's alternative cultural scene far off the beaten creative track.
Are you looking for a suitable cultural programme in Bremen? We've put together some tips for you to visit in terms of city culture, architecture, open ateliers and open-air events - with a few insider tips thrown in for good measure.
Urban Culture
Kultur vor Ort
regularly offers you public guided tours. They take a close look at the western districts of
Gröpelingen
,
Walle
,
Überseestadt
or
Woltmershausen
. This also includes Bremen's harbour district and art in public spaces. Discover Bremen's urban culture far away from the monuments such as
the town hall and the Roland statue
.
Stages by the water
As a city by the river, Bremen offers various cultural stages directly next to the Weser: Humorous productions and guest appearances by comedians await you on board the
theatre ship
. In summer, the
Seebühne
temporarily offers a special kind of open-air concert experience, and the
GOP Theater Bremen
by the Weser offers changing variety shows with lots of acrobatics.
Architecture
You like to search for inspiration for your next trip on Instagram? Right so, because pictures say more than a thousand words. Bremen's architecture is especially diverse: from the historic buildings in the old town to the classics of the 1970s to the warehouse buildings and containers in Überseestadt. Browse on
@bremermoment
,
@meinbremen
or
@visit.bremen
and collect inspiration. We look forward to your motifs and find them best if you tag your pictures with the hashtags
#bremermoment
,
#meinbremen
or
#bremenerleben
. By the way: Do you know our Instawalks? We regularly take you on photo safaris. For more photo inspiration and information about Bremen's buildings from 1950 onwards, check out the
architecture guide
.
Open Ateliers
Twice a year, Bremen's artists' studios open their doors and give you a glimpse over their shoulders into their workshops. In May, nearly 30 artists and craftspeople will be opening their studios in Bremen's
Neustadt
district. Their offerings range from watercolours, ceramics and jewellery design to photography, music and sculpture. In October and November, the studios in the
Viertel
will offer an insight into their work. Under the umbrella of
"KunstWerk im Viertel"
, numerous creative people invite you to get to know their craft and art better over the course of a weekend.
Local Culture
Are you suffering from a lack of knowledge about Bremen? No problem! We've got three tips to remedy the situation quickly:
The Focke Museum informs you about Bremen's art and cultural history.
You can't quite remember the story the Town Musicians? The Märchenspiel will turn you into an fairytale expert. Free of charge you can watch it every Sunday from May to September at 12 o'clock at the Domshof.
Embark on a time-travelling journey: either to the 19th century in the cigar factory at Köksch un Qualm or accompany Bremen notables through the Schnoor in the Bremer Geschichtenhaus.
Zollkantine
The
Zollkantine
offers you concerts and music from Bremen's musical subculture. The venue in the
Überseestadt
offers a stage for music lovers from Bremen and the surrounding area. The programme of the "Open Stage - Bremen offene Bühne" is particularly entertaining because amateurs and professionals enter the stage.
Dining and Drinking Culture
Not only the way to ones heart, but also the way to culture is through the stomach. What would a visit to Bremen be without a typical Bremen meal?
Bremens cuisine
offers year-round classics like Labskaus and Knipp, as well as seasonal dishes like kale and pinkel. Rollo is also one of Bremen's fast-food specialities. When it comes to drinks, Bremen's breweries offer classic beer as well as craft beer varieties.
For dessert, there's Bremer Babbeler and Kluten. The people of Bremen love to drink
coffee
and enjoy Bremer Kaffeebrot or
Klaben
, during the Christmas season.
Open Air Events
Especially in summer, concerts, theatre, festivals and many other cultural events in Bremen are moved to open-air stages:
La Strada
,
Breminale
,
Summer in Lesmona
,
Shakespeare in the Park
, SummerSounds and many more.
Exploring the Harbour
Being a city next to a river, Bremen looks back on a long port history, which you can learn more about in the port museum
Speicher XI
. In the 1990s, the transformation of the old Überseehafen into a modern city district, today known as the
Überseestadt
, began. There you can find, among other things, the classic car centre in Schuppen Eins as well as the somewhat different mini-golf experience in
Schwarzlichhof
and numerous
restaurants
.
Theatre
Bremen offers a colourful
theatre landscape
: You'll find classics as well as modern productions, musicals, puppet theatre and much more. Looking for an insider tip?
Theatre 11
in Faulenstraße grew out of a small theatre project and now trains its own actors and actresses as a non-profit project. The focus lays on plays for children and young people, with a repertoire ranging from Peter Pan and Snow White to No Exit.
Industrial Culture
In contrast to the collieries in the Ruhr area, Bremen offers a Hanseatic-style industrial culture. Around the Weser and in the former port area in
Überseestadt
you can discover interesting industrial buildings, such as the
old wool combing works
in Bremen's north. Today, up-and-coming companies are settling there again. Breweries and coffee roasting plants are among Bremen's industrial classics. You'll be spoilt for choice when it comes to tours, for example you can discover the
Bremer Union Brewery
or visit the
Lloyd Caffee roastery
. Guided tours also take place in the
old grain handling plant
, however, there is an absolute ban on taking photos here.
Art Vending Machines
When visiting the Bremer
Viertel
or
Überseestadt
, you should keep your eyes open! At three locations, three colourful art vending machines are waiting to provide you with art to go. Here you can get a small painting for four euros, which you can easily carry in a bag. You only choose the category, the motif remains a surprise. The project aims to make art in public spaces accessible to everyone throughout Germany.
ArtPeeks – ART'N'WALK through the City
Discover Bremen's public art on a walk past more than 25 different stops. The almost six-kilometre-long
ArtPeeks
route takes you in just over two hours to exciting works of art that inspire amazement, speculation and discussion. The tour starts with the
Bremen Town Musicians
.
Es soll Glück bringen, die Hufe des Esels zu umfassen.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Theaterschiff
Golden City
GOP
Speicher XI
The Viertel
The Neustadt
Focke Museum
Domshof
Köksch un Qualm
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Zollkantine
Port museum
Schuppen Eins
SchwarzLichtHof
Theater 11
wool combing works
Union brewery Bremen
Lloyd Caffee
Grain handling plant
Art vending machine Friesenstr. 109
Art vending machine Gutenfelsstr.
Art vending machine Humboldtstr. 67
You might also be interested in...
Culture and Events
There's always something happening in Bremen!
Breminale
Five-day culture festival.
Bar Meets Culture
Museums in Bremen
Coffee Culture in Bremen
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
ArtPeeks – ART'N'WALK through the City
Take a walk around and discover Bremen's art in public spaces
St. Peter’s Cathedral - One of Bremen's Landmarks
Home
Tourism
Sights
St. Peter’s Cathedral Bremen
St. Peter’s Cathedral Bremen
A Bremen landmark with an eventful history
Set between the town hall and the State Parliament, the cathedral completes the ensemble of historical buildings on Bremen's market square. Its two towers, one of which is open to visitors, are visible from afar and dominate the city skyline. Over the centuries, the cathedral has often changed its face. A visit to the cathedral museum or a climb up one of the over 90-metre-high towers is worthwhile!
An Impressive Sight
Bremen's St. Peter's Cathedral is an impressive building on Bremen's market square. A church has stood on this site for over 1200 years. The first wooden cathedral was built in 789 by the Saxon bishop Willehad and replaced by a stone building around 805. After being destroyed and rebuilt several times, the three-nave basilica was built in the 11th century, which provided the basic structure of today's Bremen Cathedral.
Today, St. Peter's Cathedral is an impressive church. The southern of the two over 90-metre-high church towers can be climbed and offers an incredible view over Bremen. Guided tours of the cathedral take place every Wednesday and on the first Sunday of the month.
Impressions from the Cathedral
The Cathedral through the Ages
Originally built in the Romanesque style, the cathedral was rebuilt around 1500 into a late Gothic church with filigree net vaulting. After the Thirty Years' War, the cathedral was closed for almost 70 years and gradually fell into disrepair. The first major restoration took place from 1888 to 1901. During the Second World War, the cathedral fell victim to several bomb attacks and had to be extensively restored again from 1972 to 1985.
Cathedral Museum and Lead Cellar
The cathedral also houses a museum that provides insight into the 1200-year history of the cathedral, documents its construction, displays sacred works of art and showcases the spectacular excavation finds from seven bishop's tombs. Admission is free. And the cathedral has another, slightly eerie highlight to offer - the "Lead Cellar". On display are the mummies of eight people in their open coffins, who were originally buried in the cathedral's east crypt. To this day, the reason for the mummification of the corpses has not been conclusively explained. Particularly curious: scientists found a bullet in the spine of a male mummy.
St. Peter’s Cathedral
Website
Dom-Museum im St. Petri-Dom
Get the Museum Guide For Your Phone
You might also be interested in...
Churches in Bremen
The churches can all be found in the city centre.
Market Square
The market square is the focal point of Bremen.
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Customer Advisory and Sales
We are your local partner and we will help you plan your trip.
Top Events 2024 in Bremen - Save the Date!
Top Events in Bremen
Top Events in Bremen
We have put together a list of top events in Bremen.
Find information on numerous events in Bremen and enjoy concerts, fairs, exhibitions and shopping. Don't miss out on special opportunities and cultural highlights.
Markets & Shopping
Festivals & Fairs
Exhibitions
Sports Events
Antique and Flea Market on the Weser
Flowering Season in Rhododendronpark
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Theatres and Stages in Bremen
Theatre in Bremen
Theatres and Stages in Bremen
From grand operas to hit musicals, Shakespeare to Wallace, improv to puppetry - in Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer. All the world's a stage so far as Bremen is concerned, and shows appear on water, in cellars and on huge stages. Curtains up!
Bremen's theatre scene invites you to a diverse programme. In addition to classical theatre, there is puppet theatre, children's and youth as well as music and dance theatre. In our beautiful Hanseatic city, numerous venues offer space for stage art. Here you will find an overview of Bremen's theatres and their programmes.
Drama
Musical, Dance & Variety Theatre
Children's and Youth Theatre
Open-air theatre
You might also be interested in...
Bar meets Culture
Live music, readings and other cultural events in bars
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
Christmas Markets
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
The historic Hanseatic city of Bremen is a dazzling sight in the festive period. From a World Heritage Site illuminated by shimmering lights to a mediaeval atmosphere by the water, ice skating in the north and stylish festive shopping fun - Bremen has a lot to offer when it comes to Christmas markets. Here are a few examples.
Festive lights around the World Heritage Site
The area around the Town Hall and the Roland statue (a UNESCO World Heritage Site) is transformed into a festive wonderland. With over 170 decorated stalls, the atmospheric Bremen Christmas Market is an ideal place for a leisurely browse. It is regarded as one of Germany's finest Christmas markets. The historic setting, lovingly decorated stalls and stands, and romantic Christmas lights create a very special atmosphere that attracts increasing numbers of visitors each year.
The Christmas Market
The "Schlachte-Zauber"
"Schlachte-Zauber" on the embankment of the Weser
The River Weser turns into a hive of festive activity, with boats shimmering in the blue light at the quay and the air filled with wafting aromas of smoked fish and freshly baked bread: The "Schlachte-Zauber" will take up residence on Bremen's river promenade, bringing with it a historic, wintry and maritime atmosphere.
Book now
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Book now
Christmas time in Bremen
Christmas time in Bremen
Travel-package for two
Bremen city centre – a magical sight!
Enjoy a leisurely stroll through the historic city centre and find perfect gifts for the whole family.
The city centre is easily accessible:
- by public transport - from the "Brill", "Domsheide", "Obernstrasse" and "Schüsselkorb" stops
- by car - following the new car-park routing system to Bremen city centre (Bremer Innenstadt) car parks.
- by coach - following our coach parking scheme
Lichter der Neustadt
Christmas market meets art and culture
Findorffer Winterdorf
Most of the merchants sell only fair trade products, and many stalls offer vegan food.
You might also be interested in...
Winter
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Chocolate from Bremen
Home
Living
Food and Drink
Chocolate from Bremen
Chocolate from Bremen
Without doubt, one of the most delicious temptations made of cocoa: chocolate! Whole milk, nut, dark, with fruit ... the choice is almost infinite. It’s high time to take a look at Bremen’s chocolatiers.
Was your favourite flavour among the ones we mentioned? To make sure you keep expanding your chocolate horizons, here is some inspiration for your next chocolate purchase from Bremen’s chocolate makers. Unfortunately, we can’t just hand you a piece to taste while you are reading. But I promise you, it will whet your appetite.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Van Heyningen Praline Atelier
Chocolates made in Bremen by master confectioner Nick van Heyningen. In the factory shop always on Fridays between 4 and 6 p.m.
Use Akschen 91
28237 Bremen
Schokostube Tosun
Homemade chocolate, truffles, pralines and ice cream are waiting for you in Bremen's Schnoor.
Schnoor 14
28195 Bremen
Confiserie Schriefer
Traditional recipes are used to create handmade chocolates, lactose-free chocolates and hand-poured chocolates.
Hemmstraße 101-107
28215 Bremen
Chocolat von Grashof
Spreadable chocolate for your bread: exotic and classic varieties can be found at Grashof and online.
Contrescarpe 80
28195 Bremen
Café Hauptmeier
The homemade chocolates and chocolate selection await your visit.
Bahnhofsplatz 11
28195 Bremen
Tee-Handels-Kontor Bremen
Here you will find a variety of luxury foods, including rock candy, liqueurs, honey, spreads, tea biscuits and, of course, confectionery.
Böttcherstraße 9
28195 Bremen
Schnoorkonditorei Bremen
Here you will find an exquisite selection of chocolates and truffles that will delight your palate.
Marterburg 32
28195 Bremen
Bremer Ratskeller
Chocolate meets wine in the special guided tour! Try it out!
Schoppensteel 1
28195 Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Manke & Coldewey Lebkuchen Manufaktur
Bremen Tourismus - Terms and Conditions
Home
Tourism
Bremen Tourism - Terms and Conditions
Bremen Tourism - Terms and Conditions
Why you can trust Bremen Tourism:
Bremen Tourism is a brand that stands for expert advice and the largest selection of Bremen-related tourism products and services. We are the tourism experts within the Marketing and Tourism business unit of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH (WFB), who is your contract partner, unless otherwise specified.
1. Our statement on the use of your personal data
2. Terms and conditions for package holidays of Bremen Tourism. Valid for packages with a choice of hotel.
3. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of third-party packages
4. Key rights under the EU Travel Directive
5. Terms and conditions for accommodation and accommodation-finding services
6. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of other tourism services
7. Special terms and conditions for groups of ten or more
Key rights under Directive (EU) 2015/2302
1. Our statement on the use of your personal data.
You agree to the personal data you disclose when making a booking being electronically processed, stored and used by Bremen Tourism, a brand of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH, and its affiliated companies solely for the purposes of processing orders and booking requests. The data that you supply to Bremen Tourism/WFB will never be sold or made available to third parties for reasons other than those stated above unless you have given your prior written consent. We hereby explicitly refer to the data subject’s right to object under Art. 21 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
2. Terms and conditions for package holidays of Bremen Tourism. Valid for packages with a choice of hotel.
So far as the following provisions have been effectively agreed, they will become the content of the travel contract agreed between you and Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH (‘WFB’). They supplement and complete the statutory provisions of sections 651a - 651y of the German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch - BGB) and Articles 250 and 252 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code (Einführungsgesetz zum BGB - EGBGB).
Please read these terms and conditions carefully before making your booking!
1. Formation of the package travel contract, customer’s obligations
1.1
. The following applies to all booking methods:
a)
The basis of the offer from WFB and the customer’s booking is the travel offer and any supplementary information from WFB for the travel concerned so far as these have been made available to the customer at the time of booking.
b)
If the content of the travel confirmation from WFB differs from the content of the booking request, this will constitute a new offer from WFB, by which WFB will be bound for a period of ten days. The contract will be formed on the basis of this new offer if WFB has pointed out the change when presenting the new offer and has thereby fulfilled its pre-contractual obligations to provide information and the customer indicates his/her acceptance of this new offer by means of explicit declaration or payment of a deposit within the period for which WFB is bound by its offer.
c)
The pre-contractual information provided by WFB on key features of the travel services, the price of the holiday and all additional costs, the payment methods, minimum group size, and standard cancellation fees (pursuant to Article 250, section 3, clauses 1, 3 to 5, and 7 EGBGB) is an integral element of the package travel contract unless the parties expressly agree otherwise.
1.2.
The booking may be made orally, by telephone, in writing, by email, by text message or by fax:
a)
The booking constitutes a binding offer from the customer to WFB to enter into a package holiday contract. The customer is bound by his or her offer for five working days.
b)
The contract is formed when the travel confirmation (declaration of acceptance) is issued by WFB. Upon or promptly after formation of the contract, WFB will send the customer a travel confirmation in writing or by electronic mail (‘text form’) that meets the statutory requirements concerning its content, unless the traveller is entitled to confirmation in paper form pursuant to Article 250 section 6 (1) sentence 2 EGBGB because the contract was concluded in the simultaneous physical presence of both parties or off premises.
c)
If WFB submits a firm and binding offer – possibly after prior consultation with the customer regarding the customer’s wishes – including services, prices and travel dates, the contract will, in derogation from the above provisions, be formed by the customer accepting this offer without additions, restrictions, or other modifications in the form and within the period specified by WFB. In this event, the contract will be formed upon receipt of the customer’s declaration of acceptance by WFB. WFB will notify the customer that it has received the declaration of acceptance. However, the legal force of the contract does not depend on the customer’s receipt of this notification.
1.3.
For bookings made by means of electronic commerce (e.g. internet, app, teleservices) the following applies in respect of the formation of the contract:
a)
The electronic booking procedure in the relevant application is explained to the customer by WFB.
b)
A correction option, whose use is explained, is available to the customer to correct or delete his/her entries, or to reset the entire booking form.
c)
The contractual languages in which the online booking may be carried out are specified. However, only the German version is legally binding.
d)
If WFB’s contract text is stored in the online booking system, the customer will be informed of this and of the possibility of accessing the contract text at a later point.
e)
By clicking ‘Book with obligation to pay’, the customer is making a binding offer to WFB to enter into the package travel contract. The customer is bound by this offer for five working days after sending the electronic declaration.
f)
The customer will be sent electronic confirmation of receipt of the booking request immediately.
g)
The transmission of the booking by clicking ‘Book with obligation to pay’ does not give the customer a right to enter into a package travel contract on the terms stated in the booking request. WFB is free to decide whether or not to accept the customer’s offer of a contract.
h)
The contract is formed when the customer receives the travel confirmation from WFB.
i)
If the travel confirmation is issued as soon as the customer has made the booking by clicking ‘Book with obligation to pay’, by means of the instant display of the travel confirmation on the screen (booking in real time), the package travel contract will be formed upon the receipt and display of this travel confirmation on the customer’s screen without the customer needing any interim notification of the receipt of his/her booking pursuant to f), provided that the customer is given the option of saving the travel confirmation on a durable medium and printing it off. Nevertheless, the binding nature of the package travel contract is not dependent on the customer actually using this option to save or print out the travel confirmation. WFB will also send the customer a copy of the travel confirmation in text form.
1.4.
WFB points out that, under the statutory provisions (section 312 (7) and section 312g (2) sentence 1, no.9 BGB), no cancellation right exists for package travel contracts as defined under section 651a or section 651c BGB that are concluded via distance selling (letters, brochures, phone calls, fax messages, emails, text messages, radio broadcasting, teleservices, and online services). Instead, the customer merely has recourse to the statutory rights of rescission and termination, and specifically to the right of rescission pursuant to section 651h BGB (see also clause 5 in this regard). A cancellation right does, however, exist if the contract concerning travel services pursuant to section 651a BGB has been concluded off premises, unless the oral negotiations upon which the contract’s formation is based were carried out on the basis of a previous order by the consumer; in the latter case, no cancellation right exists.
2. Payment
2.1.
WFB and travel agents may only demand or accept payments towards the price of the holiday before the end of the package tour if a valid contract is in place to protect the customer’s money, and the customer has been given the holiday protection insurance certificate (Sicherungsschein) with the name and contact details of the insurance provider highlighted so that they are clear and comprehensible. Upon formation of the contract, an advance payment in the amount of 10 per cent of the price of the holiday will be due for payment once the holiday protection insurance certificate has been provided. The balance will be payable 28 days prior to departure, provided that the customer has received the insurance certificate and the holiday can no longer be cancelled on the grounds specified in clause 7.
2.2.
If the travel services do not include transportation of the customer from his/her home address or other departure point to the place where the contractual services are to be rendered and/or back again, and it has been agreed on an ad hoc basis that the entire cost of the holiday should be paid for at the end of the holiday upon receipt of all travel services with no advance payment, there is no obligation to take out insolvency insurance or to provide the customer with a holiday protection insurance certificate. This applies even if an advance payment and/or balancing payment prior to the end of the holiday has been agreed, but WFB has expressly waived any such advance payment or deposit in the booking confirmation.
2.3.
If the customer fails to make the advance payment and/or balancing payment in accordance with the agreed due dates, although WFB is willing and able to render its contractual services in due form, has met its statutory obligations to provide information, and no statutory or contractual right of retention exists on the part of the customer, WFB is entitled to cancel the package travel contract after issuing a reminder with a payment deadline, and to charge any cancellation costs pursuant to clause 5 to the customer.
3. Pre-travel changes to the contractual content that do not affect the price of the holiday
3.1.
If, after the contract has been concluded, it becomes necessary to change key features of the travel services so that they differ from the agreed content of the package travel contract, WFB is permitted to make these changes prior to departure, provided that WFB did not act contrary to the principles of good faith in making the changes, and that they are minor and do not adversely affect the standard of the holiday as a whole.
3.2.
WFB is obliged to inform the customer of any changes to its services promptly upon becoming aware of the reason for the change. This notification must be on a durable medium (including by email, text message, or voice message), and must be clear, comprehensible, and explicitly highlighted.
3.3.
In the event of a significant change to a key feature of a travel service, or a deviation from the customer’s specific requirements that had become a part of the package travel contract, the customer will be given a reasonable period – to be set by WFB concomitantly with its notification of the change – during which the customer is entitled either to accept the change or to rescind the package travel contract free of charge. If the customer does not expressly inform WFB that he/she is rescinding the package travel contract within the period provided, the change will be deemed to have been accepted.
3.4.
This will not prejudice any claims under warranty if the altered services prove defective. If WFB incurs lower costs in providing the amended holiday or any substitute holiday of the same quality and the same price, the customer shall be reimbursed for the difference, pursuant to section 651m (2) BGB.
4. Increase or reduction in the price
4.1.
In accordance with section 651f and section 651g BGB and the provisions below, WFB reserves the right to increase the price of the holiday agreed in the package travel contract if the price of the holiday is directly affected by an increase in taxes and other charges for agreed services, such as tourist taxes.
4.2.
An increase in the price of the holiday is only permissible if WFB informs the traveller of the price increase in text form, setting out the information in a clear, understandable way, with reasons for the increase and a calculation of the actual amount.
4.3.
Price increases will be calculated as follows: Where taxes or other charges have been increased pursuant to 4.1, the price of the holiday can be raised by the corresponding, proportionate amount.
4.4.
WFB is obliged to grant the customer/traveller a reduction in the price of the holiday at the request of the customer/traveller if and to the extent that the charges mentioned in 4.1 have changed since the contract was entered into and prior to departure, and this has resulted in lower costs for WFB. If the customer/traveller has paid more than the revised amount due, the excess amount must be reimbursed by WFB. However, WFB is permitted to deduct any administrative costs that it actually incurs from the reimbursable amount. At the customer/traveller’s request, WFB must provide evidence of the amount of administrative costs incurred.
4.5.
Notification of any price increase must reach the customer at least 20 days prior to travel.
4.6.
If prices increase by more than 8 per cent, the customer will be given a reasonable period – to be set by WFB concomitantly with its notification of the price increase – during which the customer is entitled either to accept the change or to rescind the package travel contract without charge. If the customer does not expressly inform WFB that he/she is rescinding the package travel contract within the period provided, the change will be deemed to have been accepted.
5. Cancellation by the customer prior to departure; cancellation costs
5.1.
The customer may cancel the package travel contract at any time prior to departure. Notice of cancellation must be given to WFB at the address provided above/below. If the holiday was booked via a travel agent, notice of cancellation may also be given to the travel agent. Customers are advised to give notice of cancellation in text form.
5.2.
If the customer cancels prior to departure or does not take up the holiday, WFB will not be entitled to the price of the holiday. Instead, WFB may demand appropriate compensation if it is not responsible for the cancellation, or if unavoidable, unusual circumstances at or in the immediate vicinity of the travel destination severely hamper the execution of the package or the transportation of passengers to the travel destination; Circumstances are regarded as unavoidable and unusual if they are outside the control of WFB and their consequences could not have been avoided even if all reasonable precautions had been taken.
5.3.
In determining the following fixed compensation amounts, WFB has taken account of the period between the notice of cancellation and departure, the expected cost savings, and the anticipated profit from any alternative use of its travel services. The compensation will be calculated from the time at which notification of cancellation was received and using the relevant cancellation percentage as follows: Applicable cancellation fee per the travel offer as a percentage of the travel price
Pre-departure receipt
Up to 8 days free of charge
7 to 1 day(s) 80 %
On the day of arrival and no-shows 90 %
For package offers for groups of 10 or more, see 7. Special terms and conditions for groups of 10 or more.
5.4.
In any event the customer remains at liberty to furnish evidence to WFB demonstrating that WFB did not incur any loss, or that the loss was significantly less than the fixed compensation demanded by WFB.
5.5.
WFB reserves the right to demand a higher, specific compensation amount instead of the fixed percentages referred to above, provided that it can prove that it incurred significantly higher costs than the applicable fixed compensation amount. In this event, WFB is obliged to provide details and evidence of the specific amount of compensation demanded, taking account of the expenses saved and any alternative use of the travel services.
5.6.
If WFB is obliged to refund the price of the holiday as a result of a cancellation, it must make this payment without undue delay, and always within 14 days of receipt of the notice of cancellation.
5.7.
The statutory right of the customer pursuant to section 651e BGB to demand from WFB by means of a notice in a durable medium that a third party take over his/her rights and duties under the package travel contract in his/her place will remain unaffected by the above provisions. Any such declaration is deemed to have been made in time if it is received by WFB seven days prior to departure.
5.8.
The taking out of travel cancellation insurance and insurance to cover the cost of repatriation in the event of an accident or illness is strongly recommended.
6. Changes to bookings
6.1.
Once the contract has been concluded, the customer is not entitled to change the travel date, travel destination, place where the holiday commences, accommodation, catering, means of transport, or other services (changes to the booking). This does not apply if changes to the booking are necessary because WFB has provided the traveller with no pre-contractual information at all, or with insufficient or incorrect pre-contractual information pursuant to Article 250, section 3 EGBGB; in this event, the booking can be changed free of charge. If, in other cases, a booking is nevertheless changed at the customer’s request, WFB may charge the customer a rebooking fee for each traveller affected by the rebooking, provided that the deadlines referred to below are met. If nothing is else is agreed on an ad hoc basis before the change to the booking is approved, the rebooking fee will amount to €20.00 per traveller affected up to the point of commencement of the second cancellation tier for the relevant type of holiday, in accordance with the above provision in clause 5.
6.2.
Rebooking requests made by the customer after the expiry of the deadlines may only be effected – if rebookings are possible at all – by cancelling the package travel contract in accordance with the conditions in clause 5 and simultaneously making a new booking. This does not apply to rebooking requests that only entail negligible costs.
7. -
8. Termination for reasons relating to conduct
8.1.
WFB may terminate the package travel contract without notice if the traveller continuously disrupts the holiday despite being warned by WFB to desist or if he/she acts in breach of contract to such an extent that the immediate cancellation of the contract is justified. This does not apply if the conduct in breach of the contract is based on an infringement by WFB of its obligations to provide information.
8.2.
If WFB terminates the contract, it retains its claim to the price of the holiday; however, WFB must deduct the value of the expenses saved and benefits gained from the alternative use of the service not utilised by the traveller, including any sums credited to it by the service providers.
9. Obligations of the customer/traveller
9.1.
Travel documents
The customer must inform WFB or the travel agent with whom the package holiday was booked if the customer does not receive the necessary travel documents (e.g. rail ticket, hotel voucher) within the period stated by WFB.
9.2.
Reporting problems; requesting a remedy
a)
If the holiday is not provided in accordance with the terms of the contract, the traveller is entitled to demand a remedy.
b)
If WFB is unable to effect a remedy due to a culpable failure to report the problem, the traveller is not entitled to claim a reduction in the price pursuant to section 651m BGB or to claim compensation pursuant to section 651n BGB
c)
The traveller is obliged to report any shortcomings to WFB’s local representative without undue delay. If no local WFB representative is available and WFB is not contractually obliged to have a local representative available, any problems with the holiday should be brought to the attention of WFB through its nominated contact agent; details of WFB’s representative and/or its local contact agent are provided in the travel confirmation. However, the traveller can also report the shortcomings to the travel agent through whom he/she booked the package holiday.
d)
WFB’s representative is charged with rectifying any problems, where possible, although the representative is not authorised to admit any claims.
9.3. Grace period prior to termination
If the customer/traveller wishes to terminate the package travel contract in accordance with section 651l BGB due to a shortcoming with the holiday of the type described in section 651i (2) BGB, so far as this shortcoming is substantial, the customer/traveller must first set WFB a reasonable grace period to remedy the problem. The only instance in which this will not apply is if WFB refuses to effect a remedy or if an immediate resolution is necessary.
10. Limitation of liability
10.1.
The contractual liability of WFB for loss or damage that does not result from death, physical injury or damage to health and has not been culpably caused is limited to three times the price of the holiday. Any possible claims in excess of this under the Montreal Convention or the German Air Traffic Act (Luftverkehrsgesetz) remain unaffected by this limitation of liability.
10.2.
WFB is not liable for interruptions to services, personal injury, or damage to property in relation to services for which it acted merely as an agent (e.g. excursions, sports events, visits to the theatre, and exhibitions) if these services were expressly designated in the travel offer and travel confirmation as services rendered by a third party, stating the identity and address of the contract partner providing the service so clearly that the traveller was able to identify the services as not forming part of WFB’s package tour and could select them separately. Sections 651b, 651c, 651w and 651y BGB remain unaffected. However, WFB is liable if and to the extent that any loss or damage suffered by the traveller is caused by a breach of WFB’s obligations to inform, explain, or organise.
11. Pursuit of claims, addressee
Claims pursuant to section 651i (3) no. 2 and no. 47 BGB must be pursued by the customer/traveller against WFB. Claims can also be pursued via the travel agent if the package holiday was booked through this travel agent. We recommend that claims are asserted in text form.
12. Alternative dispute resolution, choice of law and jurisdiction
12.1.
The WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH does not participate in any dispute resolution proceedings.
The European Commission has set up an online dispute resolution platform.
You can use this online dispute resolution platform as a consumer for the out-of-court settlement of disputes arising from online purchase or service contracts. The complaint can therefore also be submitted via the
OS-Plattform der EU
.
12.2.
For customers/travellers who are not nationals of a Member State of the European Union or citizens of Switzerland, the exclusive application of German law is agreed for the entire legal and contractual relationship between the customer/traveller and WFB. Customers/travellers falling into this category may only sue WFB at its registered office.
12.3.
The court with jurisdiction over the registered office of WFB is agreed for legal actions by WFB against customers or parties to the package travel contract that are businesses, legal entities incorporated under public or private law or persons who have their domicile or usual place of residence abroad, or whose domicile or usual place of residence is unknown at the time the action is filed.
3. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of third-party packages
We can also arrange package holidays for you that are provided by our hotel partners. Bremen Tourism acts as a booking office on behalf and for the account of the hotel/operator. Any contractual relations arising in respect of the service exist solely between the guest and hotel/operator. The terms and conditions of business of the hotel/operator apply. These are available on the website or you can request a copy from us. The hotel/operator provides all services independently. The hotel/operator alone is responsible for ensuring that the service is provided in accordance with the terms of the contract. Once a booking has been confirmed, the only contract between the guest and WFB will be an agency agreement. Under this agency agreement, WFB will be obliged to provide comprehensive information and advice and ensure that the agency service is properly performed. In the event of complaints, the guest should therefore contact the hotel/operator without undue delay and demand a remedy. Should this complaint prove fruitless, WFB is willing to act as arbiter.
4. Key rights under the EU Travel Directive:
The ‘packages with choice of hotel’ and ‘hotel packages’ options and some combinations of experiences and overnight stay/s are package tours within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2015/2302. In these cases we have already informed you about your key rights and our customer payment protection in accordance with this Directive before the completion of the booking (in the shopping basket during your online booking, personally if you have made your booking by telephone or by email if you have sent us a form). You can find further useful information at bremen-tourismus.de
5. Terms and conditions for accommodation and accommodation-finding services
WFB arranges accommodation with lodging establishments and private landlords (e.g. hotels, B&Bs and holiday apartments), collectively referred to below as ‘Accommodation Providers’, in accordance with current vacancies. The following terms and conditions, so far as effectively agreed, form part of the accommodation contract between the guest and the Accommodation Provider when a booking is made and govern the contractual relations between the guest and the Accommodation Provider, as well as the agency services provided by WFB, supplementing the statutory provisions. We would therefore ask that you read these Terms and Conditions carefully.
1. Status of WFB
1.1.
Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH – WFB– acts solely as agent unless otherwise explicitly agreed.
1.2.
It accepts no liability for information supplied by the Accommodation Provider, nor for services or disruption to services to be provided by the Accommodation Provider. The foregoing provision does not affect any liability of WFB arising under the agency agreement.
2. Formation of the contract, travel agent, information in hotel guides
2.1.
The booking constitutes a binding offer from the guest to the Accommodation Provider to conclude an accommodation contract. This offer is based on the description of the accommodation and the supplementary information in the booking materials (e.g. description of location, classification notes), so far as the customer has access to these.
2.2.
Travel agents - with the exception of WFB itself - are not authorised to conclude agreements, supply information or make representations which vary the agreed content of the contract, extend beyond the contractually agreed services of the Accommodation Provider or conflict with the description of the accommodation.
2.3.
Information in hotel guides and similar directories not published by WFB or the Accommodation Provider are not binding upon the Accommodation Provider and do not constitute part of its contractual duty unless they have been made part of the Accommodation Provider’s duty through explicit agreement with the guest.
2.4.
The booking may be made orally, in writing, by telephone, fax or electronically (email, internet). Where bookings are made electronically the guest will be sent electronic confirmation of receipt of the booking request immediately.
2.5.
The contract is formed upon receipt of the declaration of acceptance (booking confirmation) from the Accommodation Provider or WFB as the agent of the Accommodation Provider. The declaration of acceptance does not require a specific form, so confirmations received orally or by telephone are legally binding upon both guest and Accommodation Provider. Generally, the guest will also receive written confirmation of the booking from the Accommodation Provider or from WFB acting as its agent.
2.6.
If the content of the booking confirmation varies from the content of the booking, this constitutes a new offer on the part of the Accommodation Provider. The contract will be formed on the basis of this new offer if the guest indicates his or her acceptance of this offer by means of explicit declaration, payment of a deposit or the balance, or use of the accommodation.
2.7.
If the Accommodation Provider or WFB makes a special offer at the request of the guest or the booking party, then, notwithstanding the above provisions, this shall constitute a binding contract offer from the Accommodation Provider to the guest or the booking party. In such a case the contract is formed, without further confirmation from the Accommodation Provider or WFB, if the guest or the booking party accepts this offer within the period stipulated in the offer without qualification, modification or addition, through explicit declaration, payment of a deposit or the balance, or use of the accommodation.
3. Non-binding reservations
3.1.
Non-binding reservations which the guest may cancel without charge are permitted only by explicit agreement with WFB or the Accommodation Provider.
3.2.
Unless a non-binding reservation has explicitly been agreed, the booking made in accordance with clause 2 (Formation of contract) of these conditions constitutes a contract which is legally binding upon the Accommodation Provider and the guest/booking party.
3.3.
If a non-binding reservation has been agreed, the Accommodation Provider shall keep the requested accommodation free until the agreed date to allow the guest to make the booking. The guest shall notify WFB or the Accommodation Provider by this date whether he/she wishes the booking to be regarded as binding upon him/her too. If no such notification is received, the reservation will be cancelled with no further notification obligation on the part of the WFB or the Accommodation Provider. If notification is given within the stipulated period, the booking will become binding irrespective of any booking confirmation from the Accommodation Provider or WFB.
4. Prices and services
4.1.
The prices quoted in the brochure are final prices and include value-added tax at the statutory rate and, unless otherwise specified, all additional expenses. Resort tax and tourist tax may apply and will be shown separately, along with charges for consumption-based services (e.g. electricity, gas, water, firewood) and for optional and additional services.
4.2.
The services to be provided by the Accommodation Provider are defined solely by the content of the booking confirmation in conjunction with the applicable brochure or the description of the property, and by any supplementary agreements expressly agreed with the guest/booking party. The guest/booking party is advised to record any supplementary agreements in writing.
4.3.
An administration fee of €20.00 may be charged for each change to a booking (change to accommodation type, arrival or departure date, length of stay, meals taken) unless the guest has a legal right to make such changes. This does not apply if the change is minor.
5. Payment
5.1.
The dates on which the deposit and balance are due are those dates agreed with the guest or the booking party and specified in the booking confirmation. In the absence of any special arrangement, the full price for the accommodation including charges for additional expenses and additional services shall be payable at the end of the stay to the Accommodation Provider.
5.2.
For stays of more than one week the Accommodation Provider may, at the end of each week, request payment for the days already stayed and for additional services (such as meals not included in the price of the accommodation, items taken from the mini-bar).
5.3.
The Accommodation Provider may also demand a deposit of 20 per cent of the total price, even if this is not explicitly mentioned in the booking confirmation.
5.4.
If the guest fails to pay an agreed deposit or fails to do so in full despite having no contractual or statutory right to withhold payment, and despite having received a reminder from the Accommodation Provider specifying a deadline by which this payment must be made, and if the Accommodation Provider is willing and able to provide the contractual services, then the Accommodation Provider will be entitled to cancel the contract and to charge the guest cancellation costs in accordance with clause 6 of these terms and conditions.
6. Cancellation and no-show
6.1.
If the guest cancels the booking or fails to turn up, the Accommodation Provider shall be entitled to demand payment of the agreed price including charges for meals and additional services.
6.2.
The Accommodation Provider must attempt, within the scope of its normal business operations but without any obligation to make any special effort, to find an alternative use for the booked accommodation, taking account of any special characteristics (e.g. non-smoking room, family room).
6.3.
The Accommodation Provider shall deduct the price of an alternative booking or, if this is not possible, any expenditure saved.
6.4.
According to the percentage rates established in court decisions for assessing costs saved, the guest or booking party shall pay the Accommodation Provider the following amounts, based in each case on the total price of the accommodation services (including all additional expenses), but excluding public charges such as tourist or resort tax:
For holiday apartments/self-catering accommodation 90 per cent
For bed and breakfast 80 per cent
For half-board 70 per cent
For full-board 60 per cent
6.5.
The guest/booking party is expressly entitled to provide evidence to the Accommodation Provider that the cost savings were significantly greater than the aforementioned cancellation charges, or that an alternative use was found for the accommodation or other services. If such evidence is provided the guest or the booking party is only required to pay the lesser amount.
6.6.
We strongly recommend that guests arrange travel cancellation insurance.
6.7.
Due to the booking procedures, the notice of cancellation must be sent to Bremen Tourism (not the Accommodation Provider). In the interests of the guest, we recommend that such notification be sent in writing.
7. Duties of the customer
7.1.
The guest is obliged to inform the Accommodation Provider of any problems and defects and to demand a remedy immediately. Any complaints should be reported in the first instance to the relevant Accommodation Provider. If the problem is not remedied, the guest should inform WFB, which will try to resolve the issue. Reporting a problem to WFB only is not sufficient. Culpable failure to report the problem may render the guest’s claims invalid.
7.2.
The guest is entitled to terminate the contract only in the event of substantial defects or problems. He or she must first report the problem to the Accommodation Provider and allow a reasonable period for the defect to be remedied, unless remedy is impossible or is refused by the Accommodation Provider or if immediate termination is justified by a particular interest of the guest which is clear to the Accommodation Provider or if it would be objectively unreasonable to expect the guest to continue the stay for such reasons.
8. Liability
8.1.
The contractual liability of the Accommodation Provider for damage other than physical injury is limited to three times the price of the holiday, unless the guest’s loss has been caused intentionally or through gross negligence on the part of the Accommodation Provider or unless the Accommodation Provider is responsible for damage sustained by the guest solely because of the fault of an agent engaged to assist in the performance of its obligations.
8.2.
This does not affect the innkeepers’ liability of the Accommodation Provider, so far as such exists, for items brought into the property pursuant to sections 701 et seq. German Civil Code (BGB).
8.3.
The Accommodation Provider is not liable for defective performance in connection with services which are merely arranged with third party providers (e.g. sporting events, theatre visits, exhibitions etc.) during the stay and which are identifiable to the guest/booking party as third-party services. The same applies to third-party services which were arranged in conjunction with the accommodation booking, so far as these are expressly identified as third-party services in the brochure description or booking confirmation.
9. Statute of limitations
9.1.
Claims under contract of the guest/booking party against the Accommodation Provider or against WFB arising from death, physical injury or damage to health including contractual claims to compensation for pain and suffering, which are caused by their negligent breach of duty or an intentional or negligent breach of duty by their statutory representatives or agents employed to assist in the performance of their obligations, become statute-barred after three years. This also applies to claims for compensation for other loss caused by grossly negligent breach of duty by the Accommodation Provider, or by WFB or by an intentional or grossly negligent breach of duty by their statutory representatives or agents.
9.2.
All other contractual claims become statute-barred after one year.
9.3.
The statute-barring of claims under the above provisions shall commence at the end of the year in which the claim arose and the guest/booking party became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the claim and in which the Accommodation Provider or WFB became aware of its liability, or ought to have become aware had it not been for gross negligence.
9.4.
If the guest and the Accommodation Provider or WFB engage in negotiations concerning the claims or the circumstances giving rise to the claim, the period of limitation will be suspended until the guest or the Accommodation Provider or WFB refuses to continue the negotiations. The aforementioned one-year period of limitation will take effect no sooner than three months after the end of the period of suspension.
10. Choice of law and jurisdiction
10.1.
The contractual relationship between the guest or booking party and the Accommodation Provider or WFB shall be governed exclusively by German law. The same also applies to the legal relationship as a whole.
10.2.
The guest or booking party may only bring legal action against the Accommodation Provider or WFB at the court with jurisdiction over the domicile of the Accommodation Provider or of WFB respectively.
10.3.
Claims of the Accommodation Provider or WFB against the guest or the booking party must be brought at the court with jurisdiction over the customer’s place of residence. For actions against guests or booking parties which are businesses, legal entities incorporated under public or private law, or persons who have their domicile/business address or usual place of residence abroad, or whose domicile/business address or usual place of residence is unknown at the time the action is filed, the registered office of the Accommodation Provider is agreed as the place of jurisdiction.
10.4.
The above provisions do not apply if and to the extent that other mandatory provisions of European law or other international provisions are applicable.
11. Dispute resolution
11.1.
The WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH does not participate in any dispute resolution proceedings.
The European Commission has set up an online dispute resolution platform.
You can use this online dispute resolution platform as a consumer for the out-of-court settlement of disputes arising from online purchase or service contracts. The complaint can therefore also be submitted via the OS-Plattform der EU.
6. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of other tourism services
WFB arranges various services for you on behalf of our partners (guided tours, tickets, meals and refreshments etc.). Bremen Tourism acts as a booking office on behalf and for the account of the provider of other services. Any contractual relations arising in respect of the service exist solely between the guest and the provider of the services. The terms and conditions of business of the provider apply. These are available on the website or you can request a copy from WFB. The provider will supply the arranged service under its own responsibility. Your contract partners alone are responsible for ensuring that the service is provided in accordance with the terms of the contract.
When a booking has been confirmed, the only contract between the guest and WFB will be an agency agreement. Under this agency agreement, WFB will be obliged to provide comprehensive information and advice and ensure that the agency service is properly performed.
In the event of complaints, the guest should therefore contact his or her contract partner immediately and demand a remedy. Should this complaint prove fruitless, WFB is willing to act as arbiter.
Please note that, particularly in the case of admission tickets, event tickets, guided tours and trips, tickets cannot be returned and bookings cannot be amended unless otherwise specifically agreed in writing at the time of booking.
7. Special terms and conditions for groups of ten or more
Terms of payment
A 20 per cent deposit is payable at the time the contract is entered into; the balance is due four weeks before the start of the holiday. Where bookings are made less than four weeks before the start of the holiday, the full price is payable immediately. Guided tours (without any other services included) must be paid for at least 14 days prior to the date of travel.
Terms and conditions for cancellations and changes to the booking
We recommend that guests arrange travel cancellation insurance.
Accommodation service
The terms and conditions of the relevant hotel apply. We will advise you of these prior to booking and they will be shown on your booking confirmation. We need the names of all members of your party no later than 30 days before arrival or, for late bookings, at the time of booking. If travel cancellation insurance has been purchased, any members of your party whose names are not listed on the policy will not be covered by this insurance.
Individual tour modules, meals and refreshments, one-day itineraries, and guided tours
No charge is made for cancellation or changes to the booking up to 15 days before the date of arrival. If the rebooking requires additional expense or work, Bremen Tourism reserves the right to charge an administration fee of €20.00.
14 days or less before the start of the holiday: charge of €20.00
On the day of arrival and no-shows: 100 per cent of the total cost of the holiday
If the service provider has any special terms and conditions, we will advise you of these prior to booking and they will be shown on your booking confirmation.
Group package holidays of Bremen Tourism with a choice of hotel.
No charge for cancellation or changes to the booking up to 8 days before the date of arrival.
7 - 1 day(s) prior to arrival date: 80 per cent of the total cost of the holiday.
On the day of arrival and no-shows: 90 per cent of the total cost of the holiday.
Our group packages have a minimum group size of ten people. If the group size falls below this minimum number due to cancellations, the remaining participants will be offered the choice of changing their booking or paying a higher price per person.
Contacts:
Bremen Tourism
Tel. 0421 30 800 10
bremen-tourism.de
info@bremen-tourism.de
WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen
Ansgaritorstraße 11
28195 Bremen
wfb-bremen.de
Board of Directors:
Andreas Heyer (Vors.), Oliver Rau
Chairman of the Supervisory Board:
Senator Kristina Vogt
Registered office:
Bremen, HRB 3354
Key rights under Directive (EU) 2015/2302
Travellers will receive all essential information about the package before concluding the package travel contract.
There is always at least one trader who is liable for the proper performance of all the travel services included in the contract.
Travellers are given an emergency telephone number or details of a contact point where they can get in touch with the organiser or the travel agent.
Travellers may transfer the package to another person, on reasonable notice and possibly subject to additional costs.
The price of the package may only be increased if specific costs rise (for instance, fuel prices) and if expressly provided for in the contract, and in any event not later than 20 days before the start of the package. If the price increase exceeds 8 % of the price of the package, the traveller may terminate the contract. If the organiser reserves the right to a price increase, the traveller has a right to a price reduction if there is a decrease in the relevant costs.
Travellers may terminate the contract without paying any termination fee and get a full refund of any payments if any of the essential elements of the package, other than the price, are changed significantly. If before the start of the package the trader responsible for the package cancels the package, travellers are entitled to a refund and compensation where appropriate.
Travellers may terminate the contract without paying any termination fee before the start of the package in the event of exceptional circumstances, for instance if there are serious security problems at the destination which are likely to affect the package.
Additionally, travellers may at any time before the start of the package terminate the contract in return for an appropriate and justifiable termination fee.
If, after the start of the package, significant elements of the package cannot be provided as agreed, suitable alternative arrangements will have to be offered to the traveller at no extra cost. Travellers may terminate the contract without paying any termination fee, where services are not performed in accordance with the contract and this substantially affects the performance of the package and the organiser fails to remedy the problem.
Travellers are also entitled to a price reduction and/or compensation for damages where the travel services are not performed or are improperly performed.
The organiser has to provide assistance if the traveller is in difficulty.
Directive (EU) 2015/2302 as transposed into national law
Error - Page not found
404
Sorry, your page could not be found:
http://www.bremen.eu/second-look-at-bremen%20
But don't worry - you will definitely find other, exciting content on
Bremen.eu
Back to home page
Top Events 2024 in Bremen - Save the Date!
Top Events in Bremen
Top Events in Bremen
We have put together a list of top events in Bremen.
Find information on numerous events in Bremen and enjoy concerts, fairs, exhibitions and shopping. Don't miss out on special opportunities and cultural highlights.
Markets & Shopping
Festivals & Fairs
Exhibitions
Sports Events
Antique and Flea Market on the Weser
Flowering Season in Rhododendronpark
You might also be interested in...
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Wallanlagen Park Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Parks and Recreation
Wallanlagen Park Bremen
Wallanlagen Park Bremen
The perfect place for a relaxing stroll in the city center.
Today, this park where the ramparts once formed an extra line of protection around the city's boundary walls is ideal for enjoying a walk, taking in the views and treating yourself to a delicious slice of cake.
The park information centre, which is open every Thursday from 10am to 4pm, is in one of the old guardhouses, not far from the "coffee windmill". Also worth seeing is the parkland between Neustadtscontrescarpe and Neustadtswall next to Bremen University of Applied Sciences.
Loriots Man with the Big Round Nose
Windmill in Wallanlagen Park
If you are strolling from the main station to the city centre, the first notable feature you come across is the
windmill
in Wallanlagen Park. This is a great place for a walk, or simply to wind down and relax. The windmill is open to the public and also houses a restaurant.
The Mill in the Wallanlagen
You might also be interested in...
Bürgerpark and the Municipal Forest
Rhododendronpark
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
Springtime in Bremen
Bar and Pub Scene in Bremen
Home
Culture
Bar meets Culture
Bar and Pub Scene in Bremen
Discover the diverse pub scene in Bremen! Whether you're looking for a cultural, iconic or sports pub - you're sure to find something suitable for you in our tips.
Are you planning a cosy evening in a pub with your friends? Do you fancy a cool drink and a bit of culture? Then you've come to the right place! We've put together a few tips to introduce you to Bremen's colourful and diverse pub scene. Whether it's football, iconic or cultural - you're sure to find something to suit your weekend plans. Cheers!
A Selection of Bremen's Cultural Pubs
Numerous Bremen pubs combine a relaxed atmosphere with a variety of events. Whether live music, comedy or readings - enjoy your after-work beer, a tasteful cocktail or a glass of milk with all kinds of cultural programmes.
Sports Bars in Bremen
Football is a team sport - even when watching. It's twice as much fun to cheer and cross your fingers together in a convivial atmosphere with a cold pint of beer. We've put together some tips for you on where you can experience the 1st and 2nd Bundesliga together on the big screen!
Iconic Pubs
Do you fancy a cosy beer at the bar or are you in the mood for extensive bar banter with rustic originals? No problem! In Bremen's cult pubs you can enjoy relaxed evenings in a laid-back atmosphere, savour a cold drink in comfort and round off the day in style.
You can find all the tips in Bremen here
Gastfeld
.
Lilie
Litfass
Papp
Karo
Falstaff
Heldenbar
Pusta-Stube
Meisenfrei
Gondi Kult(Ur)Kneipe
Zapfhahn
Zapfhahn
Fränkies Vogelnest
Red Rock
Werder Sports
Druide
Corvus
Bermuda-Dreieck
Lemans
Hegarty's
Das Eisen
Spitzen Gebel
Little Mary's
Fährhaus
You might also be interested in...
Culture and Events
There's always something happening in Bremen!
Cocktailbars
Tips for a fruity, creamy or unique cocktail experience
Böttcherstraße - Attractions in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße
Bremen's secret main street: Böttcherstraße combines impressive architecture, pleasure, commerce, art and culture to create one of the city's most beautiful sights.
If you want to discover Bremen, you shouldn't miss the beautiful Böttcherstraße in the heart of the city. Built in the early 20th century by Ludwig Roselius, this gem is a true work of art. The street not only impresses with its unique symbiosis of traditional and expressionist brick architecture. It also has interesting museums and numerous opportunities for you to feast and browse. And a very special highlight awaits you with the Haus des Glockenspiels.
Unique Architecture
Built between 1922 and 1931 by Ludwig Roselius, the coffee merchant and inventor of the decaffeinated coffee HAG, Böttcherstraße was then, as it is today, Bremen's secret main street and a synonym for lifestyle. At 108 meters between the market square and the Weser, it offers a successful mix of enjoyment, trade, art and culture.
Artistically designed by Bernhard Hoetger, the buildings on Böttcherstrasse are a rare example of expressionist architecture. Unique buildings make the street one of Bremen's main attractions. For example, the "Haus des Glockenspiels", where 30 Meissen porcelain bells ring out from January to March at 12 noon, 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. and from April to December between 12 noon and 6 p.m. on the hour. At the same time, 10 carved wooden panels depicting famous ocean conquerors rotate on the front of the house.
Bremen's enchanted Diagon Alley
In Böttcherstraße, you'll feel like you've been transported to a Harry Potter movie set. Immerse yourself in Bremen's Diagon Alley and marvel at the unique brick architecture. You won't find any stores selling wizarding supplies here, but you will find special little stores - from arts and crafts to home-made sweets.
Museums & Crafts
Museums & arts and crafts
Museum lovers will find what they are looking for in two buildings on the street: in the
Böttcherstraße museums
. In the museum in the Roselius House you can see an important collection of Low German domestic culture and works of art from the Middle Ages to the Baroque period. The Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum is the world's first museum dedicated to a female painter and shows works by the eponymous artist as well as special exhibitions on classical modernism.
The Handwerkerhof in the Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum is reserved for contemporary applied art. Since 1926, you have been able to watch craftspeople at work here and even today, goldsmiths and glassblowers are still at work before the eyes of passers-by.
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
Book now
Guided Tour through the Böttcherstraße
Guided Tour through the Böttcherstraße
Bremen's Secret Main Street
Browse, Store, Feast
Many small specialist stores offer everything from souvenirs, gifts, special household items, tea and wine to glass art and design. It is particularly worth stopping by the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
. Here you can see how the colorful treats are made, nibble on one or two Bonschen (Bremish for sweets) and, of course, buy them.
Many stores are also open on Sundays.
Seven Lazy Fountains
The Seven Lazy Fountains stand directly in front of the window of the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
. Bernhard Hoetger dedicated his work of art to the well-known story of the seven "lazy" sons of a farmer. They were unable to find work in Bremen and moved out into the world: rich in knowledge and experience, they returned years later and applied modern methods to their father's farm. By the way: the four Town Musicians also adorn the fountain.
Public Transportation
Streetcar lines:
Domsheide" stop: 2, 3, 4, 6, 8
Bus lines:
Bus stop "Domsheide": 24, 25 / Bus stop "Martinistraße": 25
Night lines:
Stop "Domsheide": N3, N4
Böttcherstrasse
The Website
Park and Ride
A View of Böttcherstraße in 360 Degrees
Böttcherstraße Museums
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Schnoor - Bremen's Oldest District
Home
Tourism
Sights
Schnoor - Bremen's Oldest District
Schnoor - Bremen's Oldest District
Bremen's oldest district, the Schnoor quarter, is a maze of lanes lined with little 15th and 16th century houses.
The Schnoor or Schnoor quarter is one of Bremen's absolute highlights. Only a few hundred metres from Bremen's market square, the unique and oldest district of the city delights both the locals themselves and numerous visitors from all over the world time and time again.
Discover the Schnoor Quarter on a 360 Degree Tour
Like Pearls on a String
The Old Town quarter owes its name "Schnoor" to the Low German word for "string", and there's no better way to describe this lovingly restored district: Here, small, colourful houses and shops line up like pearls on a string, along alleys so narrow that you can touch both sides with outstretched arms. No wonder, then, that the US newspaper
New York Post
ranks the unique streets of the Schnoor among the "coolest" in the world.
A Must-Visit!
Today, the Schnoor is a thriving part of the city of Bremen. The quarter is a sight in itself, but if you're looking for a cosy café or arts and crafts, this is also the place to be. In addition, the Schnoor is also home to a museum - the
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
- a quaint little
"wedding house"
to stay in for newlyweds or lovers, and a small theatre, the
Packhaustheater
. The Schnoor is also home to the story of Bremen's original
Heini Holtenbeen
, the Birgitten Monastery, the only monastery in the city, and the Katzengang, probably one of the narrowest streets in the world.
Shopping and Enjoyment Seven Days a Week
A variety of small buisinesses invite you to rummage and shop in the unique atmosphere of the 111 pretty little houses in the Schnoor. While normally you can't go shopping on Sundays in Germany, here it is possible from April to and including December. Many art shops, galleries and souvenir shops are also open on the seventh day of the week.
In addition to jewellery, souvenirs and many other specialities, you will also find a whole range of
Bremen specialities
in the Schnoor. Some restaurants will spoil you with local dishes like labskaus, knipp or brown cabbage, and bakeries, confectioners and cafés will sweeten your day with
sugary treats
like Bremer Kluten, Schnoorkuller, Kaffeebrot,
Klaben
or Babbeler. A very special highlight is the colourful candy workshop of the
Bremer Bonbon Manufaktur
in the Materburg. Here you can watch confectioners lovingly making fudge, marshmallows and of course candies, or even take part in a workshop yourself.
Book now
Engage All your Senses in the Schnoor Quarter
Engage All your Senses in the Schnoor Quarter
Guided Tour for Groups
Book now
Explore the Schnoor
Explore the Schnoor
Guided Tour for Groups
The History of the Schnoor
The Schnoor was first mentioned in the 13th century. It was mainly river fishermen, craftsmen and tradesmen who lived in this quarter. The oldest buildings that have survived to the present day were built in the 14th century. At that time, a Franciscan monastery was also built on the edge of today's Schnoorviertel, of which only the church remains today. It bears the name St. Johann and is one of the main sights in the Schnoor. At the beginning of the 20th century, the Schnoor developed into a poor quarter due to its lack of space, as cars, for example, could not pass through its alleys. What was perceived as a nightmare at the time is what gives the quarter its special ambience today. The car-free quarter is a wonderful place to stroll and immerse oneself for a moment in times long past. The medieval half-timbering of the more than 100 listed houses, the ancient cobblestones and the unique atmosphere of the winding alleyways make visitors forget the stress of everyday life in no time at all.
Impressions of the Schnoor Quarter
Website of the Schnoor Quarter
Where to find the Schnoorviertel
Somewhat hidden, but still right in the centre of Bremen, you'll find the special gem that is Schnoor. From the heart of the city with its
market square
, world heritage
town hall
and
Roland statue
,
St. Petri's Cathedral
and the
Bremen Town Musicians
, the tranquil quarter is only a few metres away and within walking distance. Just stroll in the direction of Domsheide. From there, you can access the Schnoorviertel from the street "Lange Wieren" or take the path via "Dechanatstraße" and "Am Landherrnamt". A little further in the direction of Ostertor, Komturstraße or Materburg will take you to your destination. Towards the Weser, you will find the other end of the "Marterburg", which will also take you directly to the Schnoor.
Public Transport
Tram lines:
Stop "Domsheide": 2, 3, 4, 6, 8
Bus lines:
Bus stop "Domsheide": 24, 25,
Night lines:
Domsheide" stop: N3, N4, N5
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Food and Drink - Culinary Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Kale with pinkel, labskaus and knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities do sound a bit like something you'd get used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea and connections to rural life forms the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. But the city's long coffee and brewing traditions also leave their mark, as do the regional delicacies cabbage, asparagus and strawberries. It's also impossible to imagine the culinary map of Bremen without the rollo, which was invented in Bremen, and the many sweets made here. Let Bremen melt in your mouth!
But Bremen is not only at the forefront when it comes to production, but also and especially when it comes to savouring. A large number of restaurants, pubs, cafés and manufactories invite you to savour their specialities. Whether it's cabbage and spelt, Labskaus or Knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities take a little getting used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea, the tradition of trade and links to rural life form the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. Whether it's a beer seminar or coffee tasting, a city tour with appetisers or making your own sweets - in Bremen there are plenty of opportunities to actively experience the culinary side of the city.
Schlachte Embankment
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
The delicious foundation of Bremen's town hall
Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. Not only can typical Bremen dishes be savoured here, but this is also where the cellar master poured the first fine wines back in 1409. Today, guests can choose between 650 different, illustrious varieties on over 70 pages of the wine list - praised by connoisseurs as a veritable wine encyclopaedia.
Ratskeller Bremen
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you under the town hall.
Brewing tradition
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 11th century. According to "Markenmonitor Bier", the Beck & Co brewery is the most popular and most popular beer brand in Germany. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing is the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen. A visit to the brewery's former advertising icon, the three-master "Alexander von Humboldt", is a great addition to the brewery tour. Green sails and Joe Cocker's striking "Sail Away" - who doesn't recognise this traditional barque with its eye-catching appearance? She has now found her home harbour at Bremen's Martinianleger. But Beck's is by no means the only beer brewed in Bremen. Craft beers are currently on everyone's lips in the truest sense of the word.
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Alexander von Humboldt
Dining on the world-famous three-master.
Coffee Culture
Who would have thought it: every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen, and almost every second imported bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. So it's no wonder that coffee culture is cultivated in many places in the Weser city and the city's long coffee history is continued on a daily basis. We Bremen residents even have our own word for cultivated coffee enjoyment: kaffeesieren. And in traditional roasting houses such as Lloyd Caffee and Kaffeerösterei August Münchhausen, you can take a look behind the scenes on informative guided tours, gain an insight into the art of roasting and taste full-bodied coffees. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Coffee Culture
Here you can get fresh beans, become a barista or enjoy freshly brewed delicacies.
Coffee Roasteries
Take a look behind the scenes
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Woltmershausen
Home
Living
Woltmershausen
Woltmershausen
Constant change along the Weser river
Bremen's southwest is worth living in: the district of Woltmershausen offers more than just a local recreation area directly on the Weser and complements near-city living options in multicultural surroundings with urban flair. The districts of
Rablinghausen
and
Woltmershausen
are characterised by constant change in the port industry and residential development as well as industrialisation and renaturation.
Impressions of Woltmershausen
Simply Woltmershausen
Despite the constant changes in the structure of the district, one fact has remained the same for years: old-established residents refer to their district as Pusdorf or Pusdorp. Whether the name is influenced by the strong wind directly on the river or is based on the family name of a large farmer in the area can no longer be precisely determined today. What is clear, however, is that the traditional name is not just part of everyday language. In the summer months, the Weser ferry "Pusdorp" connects the left bank of the Weser at Lankenauer Höft with the right bank at the stops Pier 2 and Molenturm.
You should not miss this in Woltmershausen
Data and Facts
Population
14,065 (as of 12/2019)
Area
5.386 km² (as of 12/2014)
Local districts
Woltmershausen
Rablinghausen
Zip code
28197
Neighbouring districts of Woltmershausen
Public transport
Tram lines:
-
Bus lines:
24
Night lines:
N3
Good to know
30 years ago, a whole 62 pubs poured along Woltmershauser Straße between Tunnel and the Rablinghausen district. This stretch was known as Bremen's longest bar!
You might also be interested in...
Districts of Bremen
Learn more about what you should not miss in the different parts of the city.
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Sommer in Lesmona - Classical Concerts in Knoops Park
Sommer in Lesmona - Classical Concerts in Knoops Park
Classical outdoor concerts in Knoops Park
Every summer, Knoops Park transforms itself into a stage in the green. The Summer in Lesmona invites you to enjoy classical music of the Chamber Philharmonic with others in a tranquil atmosphere.
Where and When?
August 9th to August 11th, 2024
Knoops Park
Bremen-Lesum
Deutsche Kammerphilharmonie Bremen
Homepage
When lovers of classical music and well-filled picnic baskets flock to
Knoops Park
in
Burglesum
, this is a sure sign of summer in Lesmona.
Every year since 1995, the open-air classical music festival has attracted numerous visitors from Bremen and the surrounding area to the park on a weekend in summer with a captivating programme and outstanding guests: on Friday with the charismatic violinist Nemanja Radulovic, on Saturday afternoon with a prominent actor and in the evening with world music star Goran Bregovic And His Wedding & Funeral Band. The wonderful Italian-Turkish conductor Nil Venditti will be conducting the Kammerphilharmonie on both evenings. The festival is rounded off on Sunday with the Family Day. A varied programme including the traditional picnic competition, musical workshops, an instrument route and the concluding 'Big Family Concert' invites you to join in and enjoy. The professionals of the Kammerphilharmonie will perform together with the hands-on orchestra and workshop participants.
Registration for the picnic competition takes place from 11am at the information stand. A jury will assess the offerings and evaluate the picnic baskets at 3 pm.
You can register by purchasing a ticket from us in the webshop, customer service or at the advance booking offices or box office.
The box office in Knoops Park opens two hours before the concert begins. (Exception: Sunday 11.00 am!) There are two box offices/entrances on the festival site. To avoid long waiting times, we advise you to also use entrance 2. Please get off at the shuttle service stop 'Knoops Park'.
You might also be interested in...
Musikfest Bremen
Music and Record Shops
Culture and Events
Tour of Beck & Co Brewery in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Behind the Scenes
Beck & Co Brewery
Beck & Co Brewery
Bremen's beer is known all over the world. Take a look behind the scenes at the brewery.
Beer brewing is a centuries-old tradition on the Weser
For a brand like
Beck's
to remain on-trend, it is vital to be one step ahead of their prospective customers. The founding fathers of the brewery embodied this pioneering spirit over 140 years ago. On 27 June 1873, local master builder Lüder Rutenberg, master brewer Heinrich Beck and merchant Thomas May established the brewery Kaiserbrauerei Beck & May o.H.G.
Today, some 3,000 bottles of Beck's beer are opened every minute around the world. And they all carry the Beck's logo, normally a red shield with a white key, but some also have variations on the theme. This key to the kingdom of heaven belongs to St Peter, the patron saint of St Peter's Cathedral in Bremen.
And there are similarities with the city's coat of arms, upon which the logo was based from 1876 onwards. In their search for an appropriate symbol, the brewery founders originally wanted to use the city's coat of arms, but the idea was resisted by the local authority as it did not want to be associated with the production of alcohol. In the end it was decided to alter the logo a little and flip the key vertically. The result was acceptable to both parties and has been used as the logo for the brand and the brewery ever since.
Tour of Beck's Brewery
A tour of Beck's Brewery provides a wealth of fascinating information about the art of brewing and the Beck's and Haake-Beck brands. As well as looking round the museum, visitors can see the ingredients store and brewhouse, the malt silos, and the fermentation and storage tanks. Two ten-minute films and a cinema presentation complete the tour. Afterwards, there is an opportunity to sample the beers.
Book now
Beck's and Haake-Beck exclusive tour
Beck's and Haake-Beck exclusive tour
Offer for groups
'Alex' - ship with green sails
A brewery tour can easily be combined with a visit to the
Alexander von Humboldt
, the iconic three-masted ship used in promoting Beck's beer. German TV viewers will recall the advertisement with the bright green sails and the distinctive sound of 'Sail Away' by Joe Cocker. The Alexander von Humboldt has done more than 500,000 nautical miles, crossed the Atlantic several times and circumnavigated Cape Horn. Nowadays the ship, known as Alex, serves as a floating hotel and restaurant.
Book now
Beer dinner on the "Alex"
Beer dinner on the "Alex"
Mobility and Traffic in Bremen
Home
Living
Mobility and Traffic
Mobility and Traffic
How to get around in the Hanseatic city.
Ferries in Bremen
Cross the Weser and enjoy Bremen's shortest boat ride or set out on a short trip to the beach.
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Cycling in Bremen
In no other city in Germany with more than 500,000 inhabitants do more people cycle than in Bremen.
UNESCO World Heritage: Town Hall and Roland Statue Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
UNESCO World Heritage: Town Hall and Roland Statue Bremen
UNESCO World Heritage: Town Hall and Roland Statue Bremen
Bremen's pride and joy is its ensemble of the Town Hall and Roland, which has been recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage. Definitely worth a visit!
Bremen's Town Hall and
Roland
, apart from the
Town Musicians
, are two of Bremen's most famous
sights
that should not be missing on any bucket list for the Hanseatic city. The duo is beautifully presented on the north-east side of the
market square
and attracts numerous visitors every day. No wonder, after all, the ensemble is absolutely unique. That's why it has been on UNESCO's World Heritage List as a cultural monument since 2004, and rightly so. A notable detail: Bremen's town hall is the only town hall in the world to receive this honour.
Unique Examples of Democracy and Self-Determination
The Town Hall and Roland are part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site because they represent the development of civic autonomy and sovereignty in a European urban society in an outstanding way. The Town Hall has been the seat of municipal self-government and state government since it was built in 1405, while Roland, dating from 1404, has always symbolised the rights and privileges of the Hanseatic city. At the same time, as part of Bremen's market square, they are incorporated into an impressive ensemble of monuments to the church, parliamentarianism, business and culture.
Information for People with Disabilities
Das Rathaus Bremen - Obere Rathaushalle
Das Rathaus Bremen - Untere Rathaushalle
A Look inside the Town Hall
As the seat of the state government, Bremen's Town Hall is not only an important place for political decisions. It is also open to all its guests - whether for Senate events, guided tours, exhibitions and markets in the Lower Town Hall Chamber or a visit to the unique Ratskeller (a wine cellar). You can even get married in this spectacular building.
BremenGo - Augmented Reality App
Take a look behind the façade of the town hall and get an exclusive view into the Güldenkammer. Learn even more about Roland with a quiz. The Town Musicians become your personal tour guides!
The Roland Statue
In front of the town hall, Bremen's Roland proudly awaits you, the city's landmark and representative of its freedom since its construction. With its impressive overall height of 10.21 metres, Bremen's Roland is not only the largest free-standing statue of the German Middle Ages, it is also, according to UNESCO, the most beautiful Roland monument in the country in all its splendour. You're bound to notice its pointed knees. Or have you already discovered the "cripple" at his feet? If you want to know what this is all about and what else is worth knowing about the stone giant, then you should definitely read on in our article about
Bremen's Roland
.
Exciting Vault: the Bremen Ratskeller
The "delicious basement of the town hall" - Bremen's Ratskeller has this nickname for a reason. The vaults below the Liebfrauenkirchhof and the Domshof are not only home to one of Bremen's most traditional restaurants, but also to the world's largest selection of exclusively German wines. As part of Bremen's town hall, the Ratskeller is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site and impresses with its over 600-year-old history. Find out more about the Bremen Ratskeller
here
.
Book now
Guided visit to the Ratskeller (Groups)
Guided visit to the Ratskeller (Groups)
Good to know
What does World Heritage mean?
UNESCO set itself a goal in 1972: to protect places, buildings and natural sites of exceptional significance and to preserve them for humanity. Bremen committed itself to precisely this when it signed the convention in 2004 and submitted a convincing conservation plan. For the coveted seal, one of the ten UNESCO criteria on the uniqueness and authenticity of a cultural monument must be met: City Hall and Roland have achieved it. The UNESCO World Heritage List currently comprises 1,052 World Heritage sites in 165 countries. In Germany, 41 sites are protected under the international agreement for the cultural and natural heritage of mankind. As a rule, UNESCO cannot provide financial support and can remove a World Heritage Site from the list in the event of a violation of the Convention. For detailed information, please visit
the UNESCO website
.
You might also be interested in...
Book now
Guided Tour
Guided Tour
Sights in Bremen
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Bremen's Historic Market Square
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen's Historic Market Square
Bremen's Historic Market Square
Bremen's market square is not only one of the oldest public squares in the city, but also one of the most beautiful. Surrounded by many buildings worth seeing, you shouldn't miss this gem in the heart of the city!
Bremen's market square is considered one of the most beautiful in Europe. Where once there was lively trade, events such as the Christmas market or the "Kleiner Freimarkt" (small open-air market) invite you to socialise on a total area of 3,484 square metres, while the many adjacent buildings are not only popular photo motifs, but also want to be discovered by you. A particularly interesting eye-catcher is the town hall, which together with Bremen's Roland statue is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. But St. Peter's Cathedral, the Bürgerschaft (State Parliament) and Schütting also have an exciting story to tell.
Overview of the buildings on Bremen's market square
The Hanseatic Cross
You may notice the distinctive paving on Bremen's market square. Here you can see a Hanseatic cross that was originally emblazoned on the flags of the Hanseatic Legion. The Hanseatic Legion was made up of citizens from Bremen, Hamburg and Lübeck and fought together in the wars of liberation from 1813 to 1815. The cross, which is paved in red and measures 4.8 metres in diameter, is a reminder of this legion.
Hole of Bremen (Bremer Loch)
You hear animal voices on the market square? Barking, crows, cock-a-doodle-do or IA cries can be heard alternately from the so-called
Bremer Loch - Hole of Bremen
. The reason: a manhole cover next to the Bürgerschaft has been converted into a donation box. If you insert a coin, you will receive the sound of one of the four town musicians as a reward. The coins are donated to the Wilhelm-Kaisen-Bürgerhilfe for its social projects.
Book now
Guided tour of the town hall
Guided tour of the town hall
Discover the UNESCO World Heritage Site from the inside and learn more about the magnificent building
Bronze model of Bremen's old town
On the east side of the Bremen Parliament you will find a bronze model of Bremen's old town. It offers a nice overview of the city centre. A special feature: visually impaired and blind people can use this replica to feel the architecture around the market square and receive additional information in Braille.
The Ratskeller
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities from Knipp to Labskaus and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you in
Bremen's Ratskeller.
Dive into the exciting vaults beneath Bremen's town hall.
Book now
Guided City Tour
Guided City Tour
Book now
Guided tour through the Ratskeller
Guided tour through the Ratskeller
Discover Numerous other sights from the market square
As you have already learned, many of Bremen's interesting highlights are located directly on the market square itself. In addition, many other sights are only a stone's throw away from here. The famous Town Musicians can be found on the west side of the town hall, the entrance to Böttcherstraße is right next to the Schütting, while the winding Schnoor is also just a few minutes' walk away. Here are some inspirations for your discovery tour from the market square.
You might also be interested in...
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Guided Tours & Trips
Enjoy an entertaining and informative tour accompanied by a guide.
Ships on the Weser in Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Ships on the Weser in Bremen
Ships on the Weser in Bremen
Flowing through the heart of Bremen is the Weser river: an old trading route that was the driving force behind the city's emergence as a proud Hanseatic centre. Bremen's seafaring traditions are still alive and well today and have a big part to play in its unique appeal. Ship ahoy!
Moored on both banks of the Weser river numerous ships and smaller boats display the seafaring traditions of Bremen. They are part of the unique maritime flair of the city. Enjoy a cruise through the harbour or book a boat trip to Bremerhaven, marvel at world famous sailing vessels, feast on board a maritime restaurant or spend a night in a cozy cabin.
Alexander von Humboldt
This historical three-masted ship, which gained international recognition through commercials for Beck's beer, was being rebuilt into a floating restaurant and hotel. It anchors permanently at the Schlachte in Bremen.
The Alexander von Humboldt
served as a sail training ship until it was brought out of service in 2011. Its new owner had refurbished it completely and converted it into a hotel and restaurant business, but kept its distinctive green sails. Now, the barque, which was built in 1906, offers a unique accommodation for forty people, mainly in twin rooms but also in larger family rooms. The Alexander von Humboldt offers a different menu every month with a selection of fresh, regional and seasonal dishes. These also refer to the ship and its voyages. A selection of wines and other drinks are available to complement the food. The ship can accommodate small private parties and larger functions for up to 120 guests.
Alexander von Humboldt an der Schlachte
Dauerwelle
The
Dauerwelle
was purchased by the University of the Arts in 2020 and lovingly refurbished at the Kötter shipyard and the Lankenauer Höft. In May 2022, the converted passenger ship celebrated its christening and since then has been available for exhibitions, projects and events. The perm is intended to serve as a special meeting place for science, culture and society.
Hotelschiff Perle
Centrally located on the Schlachte promenade, the former
Hotelschiff Perle
is available to its guests as a special hotel. Two comfortable cabins with sun terraces and fully equipped bathrooms offer the right ambience for relaxing hours during a visit to Bremen. From here you can reach the city centre and numerous sights in just a few minutes' walk, while the many inviting restaurants and bars of the Schlachte are waiting right outside your door.
MS Senator
Until 2004, the Bremen Senate received state guests and business delegations on the
MS Senator
to present Bremen and especially the Bremen ports to them from the water. After the Senate decommissioned the ship, an association of Bremen merchants took over the launch in order to make it accessible to Bremen's citizens and the business community at Schlachte jetty 6. Since then, companies and private individuals have been able to charter the MS Senator for celebrations and parties for up to 37 people.
MS Friedrich
The
MS Friedrich
is the oldest ship still in service on the Weser. Built in Hamburg in 1880, the former steamship was sold to Bremen as early as 1918, where it was initially used as a working ferry. In 1925, the Friedrich was not only given her current name, she also began operating as the "Great Harbour Tour", taking her passengers through Bremen's free ports. Numerous different areas of operation followed until the MS Friedrich was taken over by an association whose mission was to preserve it. Renovated, the ship is now moored at the Schlachte, undertakes regular club trips and is available to the public for cultural events.
Nedeva
Henry Ford, Barbara Hutton or J.P. Morgan - in the 1930s, the
Nedeva
was a popular meeting place for New York's high society and stood more than ever for glamour and the spirit of optimism after the Great Depression of 1929. The motor yacht, built by the New York Yacht Launch and Engine Company, belonged to the investment banker Edward Townsend Stotesbury, who regularly invited the celebrities of his time to parties and tours. Today, the Nedeva is once again an event location and can be booked for celebrations of all kinds.
MS Oceana
Built in 1937 at the Atlas works, the passenger ship
MS Oceana
has always been at home on the Weser. The ship, which is licensed for a maximum of 700 people, awaits its passengers at the Martinianleger for regular scheduled trips. From Martinianleger via Pier 2, Mittelsbühren, Vegesack, Blumenthal, Farge, Brake, Nordenham Unionpapier to Bremerhaven Seebäderkaje and back - on the MS Oceana you can explore the varied landscape from Bremen to Bremerhaven from the water from May to September. At the many stops, you have the opportunity to get off the ship and discover what's on offer at the various piers. It is also possible to take bicycles along, so you can combine your ship tour with a bicycle tour. In addition, the Oceana is available for charter trips.
Pannekoekschip Admiral Nelson
The
Admiral Nelson
is moored at Schlachte Pier 1 - a faithful replica of a frigate with which the famous British Admiral Horatio Nelson once won high-profile naval battles. Also known as the Pannekoekship, the restaurant ship invites you to dine and drink in a 'piratical' atmosphere. There are plenty of seats available both below and on deck. On the menu are soups, salads, sundaes, cakes and of course numerous pancake dishes from sweet to savoury.
Theaterschiff
At Weser Pier 4, in the immediate vicinity of the Wilhelm-Kaisen Bridge, the
Theaterschiff
awaits its guests with varied and laugh-out-loud comedies, revues and cabarets. In two theatre halls, which were set up in the former hold of the converted barge, there is space for a total of 216 spectators. On the deck, a gastronomic offer provides for culinary delights. The location is also available for private parties.
Die Weser
You can spend the night in a maritime atmosphere on a replica of the Weser paddle steamer
"Die Weser"
. The ship, made entirely of wood, is part of Bremen Youth Hostel and lies at the foot of it on pontoon 8 directly on the Schlachte. 26 beds in two separate areas (12 and 14 places) and two double cabins for carers invite you to spend the night on board.
MS Treue
Concerts, extended club nights and a relaxed atmosphere are promised by the
MS Treue
. The former transport ship, which was built entirely of concrete during the steel shortage, is now an event ship that invites you to a variety of events. The MS Treue is permanently moored at the beginning of the Schlachte (jetty Tiefer 3).
Die MS Treue an der Weser.
Windjammer de Liefde
Built in 1941 as a wooden freighter near Groningen, the three-master known today as
"De Liefde"
, which catches the eye with its bold red on the left bank of the Weser, has had an eventful history. Half sunk, doomed to be scrapped and left to decay - the 72-metre-long windjammer faced its end several times until it was bought by Eduard van der Velden in 2003, brought to Bremen and rebuilt on his own.
Aventura
Since spring 2022, visitors have been able to find the well-preserved
Aventura
from 1938 at Schlachte. The ship is the new home of the sailing school "Watt voraus". Here, in cosy lounges, you can study for your sailing licence, among other things. Parties and celebrations are not neglected on the Aventura either, as the ship can also be used as an event location. Visitors can also spend the night in one of the cosy cabins.
MS Loretta
The
MS Loretta
, which was once built as a cargo ship, has already had an eventful history of over 100 years. Although the old lady ship is no longer the youngest, she still has a lot to offer. Today, the MS Loretta serves as a stylish event location. A varied programme of music, theatre, literature and art is regularly offered on board.
Gräfin Emma
Maritime furnishings and historical ambience - the
Gräfin Emma
, named after one of the great female figures of the Middle Ages, has all this to offer. The classically elegant ship once came to beautiful Bremen from southern Germany and has been used here ever since to reinforce the service, as well as on harbour tours and for events.
Find the ships on the map
Alexander von Humboldt
Dauerwelle
Hotelschiff Perle
MS Senator
MS Friedrich
Nedeva
Fahrgastschiff Oceana
Pannekoekschip Admiral Nelson
Theaterschiff
Weser - Schiff der Jugendherberge
MS Treue
Windjammer De Liefde
Aventura
MS Loretta
Gräfin Emma
You might also be interested in...
Guided cycle tours
Discover the Blockland Tour alongside one of our guides
Book now
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
River Weser and Harbour Cruise (German)
Food and Drink - Culinary Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Kale with pinkel, labskaus and knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities do sound a bit like something you'd get used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea and connections to rural life forms the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. But the city's long coffee and brewing traditions also leave their mark, as do the regional delicacies cabbage, asparagus and strawberries. It's also impossible to imagine the culinary map of Bremen without the rollo, which was invented in Bremen, and the many sweets made here. Let Bremen melt in your mouth!
But Bremen is not only at the forefront when it comes to production, but also and especially when it comes to savouring. A large number of restaurants, pubs, cafés and manufactories invite you to savour their specialities. Whether it's cabbage and spelt, Labskaus or Knipp: admittedly, Bremen's specialities take a little getting used to. But that doesn't make them any less delicious. A mixture of proximity to the sea, the tradition of trade and links to rural life form the basis of traditional Bremen cuisine. Whether it's a beer seminar or coffee tasting, a city tour with appetisers or making your own sweets - in Bremen there are plenty of opportunities to actively experience the culinary side of the city.
Schlachte Embankment
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
The delicious foundation of Bremen's town hall
Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. Not only can typical Bremen dishes be savoured here, but this is also where the cellar master poured the first fine wines back in 1409. Today, guests can choose between 650 different, illustrious varieties on over 70 pages of the wine list - praised by connoisseurs as a veritable wine encyclopaedia.
Ratskeller Bremen
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you under the town hall.
Brewing tradition
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 11th century. According to "Markenmonitor Bier", the Beck & Co brewery is the most popular and most popular beer brand in Germany. Lots of interesting information about the art of brewing is the centrepiece of the brewery tour in Bremen. A visit to the brewery's former advertising icon, the three-master "Alexander von Humboldt", is a great addition to the brewery tour. Green sails and Joe Cocker's striking "Sail Away" - who doesn't recognise this traditional barque with its eye-catching appearance? She has now found her home harbour at Bremen's Martinianleger. But Beck's is by no means the only beer brewed in Bremen. Craft beers are currently on everyone's lips in the truest sense of the word.
Book now
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Brewery Tour Beck´s
Alexander von Humboldt
Dining on the world-famous three-master.
Coffee Culture
Who would have thought it: every third cup of coffee drunk in Germany comes from Bremen, and almost every second imported bean is imported via the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. So it's no wonder that coffee culture is cultivated in many places in the Weser city and the city's long coffee history is continued on a daily basis. We Bremen residents even have our own word for cultivated coffee enjoyment: kaffeesieren. And in traditional roasting houses such as Lloyd Caffee and Kaffeerösterei August Münchhausen, you can take a look behind the scenes on informative guided tours, gain an insight into the art of roasting and taste full-bodied coffees. Enjoy the brown bean with us!
Coffee Culture
Here you can get fresh beans, become a barista or enjoy freshly brewed delicacies.
Coffee Roasteries
Take a look behind the scenes
You might also be interested in...
Delicatessens Tips
Delicatessens, Pralines, Wine and More
Sweet Delicacies
Bremen will get your taste buds tingling
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
Christmas Markets
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
The historic Hanseatic city of Bremen is a dazzling sight in the festive period. From a World Heritage Site illuminated by shimmering lights to a mediaeval atmosphere by the water, ice skating in the north and stylish festive shopping fun - Bremen has a lot to offer when it comes to Christmas markets. Here are a few examples.
Festive lights around the World Heritage Site
The area around the Town Hall and the Roland statue (a UNESCO World Heritage Site) is transformed into a festive wonderland. With over 170 decorated stalls, the atmospheric Bremen Christmas Market is an ideal place for a leisurely browse. It is regarded as one of Germany's finest Christmas markets. The historic setting, lovingly decorated stalls and stands, and romantic Christmas lights create a very special atmosphere that attracts increasing numbers of visitors each year.
The Christmas Market
The "Schlachte-Zauber"
"Schlachte-Zauber" on the embankment of the Weser
The River Weser turns into a hive of festive activity, with boats shimmering in the blue light at the quay and the air filled with wafting aromas of smoked fish and freshly baked bread: The "Schlachte-Zauber" will take up residence on Bremen's river promenade, bringing with it a historic, wintry and maritime atmosphere.
Book now
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Book now
Christmas time in Bremen
Christmas time in Bremen
Travel-package for two
Bremen city centre – a magical sight!
Enjoy a leisurely stroll through the historic city centre and find perfect gifts for the whole family.
The city centre is easily accessible:
- by public transport - from the "Brill", "Domsheide", "Obernstrasse" and "Schüsselkorb" stops
- by car - following the new car-park routing system to Bremen city centre (Bremer Innenstadt) car parks.
- by coach - following our coach parking scheme
Lichter der Neustadt
Christmas market meets art and culture
Findorffer Winterdorf
Most of the merchants sell only fair trade products, and many stalls offer vegan food.
You might also be interested in...
Winter
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Plan your Sustainable Visit to Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Sustainable Visit
Plan your Sustainable Visit to Bremen
Here's how to make your next trip to Bremen more sustainable!
People who travel sustainably make an effort to act responsibly and in an environmentally friendly manner not only in their everyday lives, but also when traveling. This means taking the cultural and social aspects of your holiday destination into account and doing your best to protect nature and the environment. Making an informed decision about the type of accommodation you choose, the activities available at your vacation spot and how you move around whilst there can help you find the best offers, enjoy authentic experiences and get a better understanding of local culture.
A growing number of hotels, restaurants and other tourist businesses in Bremen are putting increasing emphasis on issues of sustainability. We've put together a number of tips on a range of topics such as how you can travel to and stay in Bremen in a sustainable way. Bremen's reputation as the "city of short distances" means it is wonderfully easy to explore either on foot or by bike. Come and spend time relaxing in the city's many parks and green spaces! You'll also find a multitude of
sustainable eco-friendly activities
that promote social inclusion when it comes to shopping, leisure and socialising. We hope you enjoy our suggestions about how to make your visit to our city greener and more sustainable.
Travelling Sustainably
Sustainable Overnight Stays in and around Bremen
We've put together a list of Bremen hotels with an internationally recognised sustainability certificate and other accommodation options in the surrounding area that follow a particularly sustainable concept. Other hotels with details about what they do to promote sustainability are listed below.
Book now
Hotels in Bremen with Sustainability Information
Hotels in Bremen with Sustainability Information
From an in-house power plant to regional products and an apiary
Conscious Eating
Sustainable Activities
Whether it's a guided exploration tour by bike, a stroll through various second-hand shops or a visit to one of the numerous museums and knowledge worlds - a lot of sustainable experiences await you in Bremen!
Getting around the City
Accessible Bremen
You'll find more detailed information about fully accessible accommodation, attractions, excursions and activities, covering art, culture, sport and leisure
here
.
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
An entire area in transition - experience a harbour district rich in tradition, anchored in the present and facing towards the future!
Überseestadt, where once ships passed by and cargo was unloaded, is a new addition to Bremen’s cityscape. Following the gradual decline of the maritime economy, a new vibrant and innovative quarter has been taking shape over recent years.
Lots of Variety in Überseestadt
In Überseestadt, newly revitalised, huge old warehouses made of red brick stand in exciting contrast to modern architecture. A mix that couldn't be more diverse in its use. Creative and innovative start-ups work next door to traditional companies from the maritime industry. Moreover numerous parks and outdoor facilities invite you to relax or be active outside. Here you'll also find creative artists and manufacturers, who have turned their passion into a profession. The gastronomic offer ranging from cafés to restaurants is just as diverse as the choice of housing, which provides homes for a variety of people, from socially financed housing to high-priced lofts. All of this takes place in front of the magnificent scenery of the Weser and its harbour basins.
Book now
Town Musicians Express
Town Musicians Express
Drive along the Weser to Überseestadt.
One of the Largest Urban Development Projects in Europe
In 2000, the Bremen Senate laid the foundation for this exciting development by approving the concept for the restructuring of the old port areas. Since then, Überseestadt has been in a constant state of transformation - numerous
projects
have already been implemented, in many places construction and work is currently in progress, while elsewhere areas are still waiting for their future use. The designs always include unbuilt green and open spaces. In this way, many attractions have already been created in Überseestadt that not only please the residents, but also attract visitors from all over Bremen to the quarter.
Waller Sand and Molenturm
One example for the many projects is the Waller Sand, a beach at the turning basin in the north-west of Überseestadt. Where until a few years ago a barren stone landscape sat, an inviting and varied leisure and local recreation area was created. Overlooking the mighty grain transport facility, you can enjoy the beach feeling, created by a water playground, volleyball courts and maritime dune landscapes. However, bathing is not allowed because of the shipping traffic. A small, lovingly planted walkway leads you directly to the pretty Molenturm - one of the city's most popular viewpoints and photo spots, which offers you a perfect view of the sunset over the Weser when the weather is right.
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
The Überseeinsel - The Überseestadt Continues to Grow
The Überseeinsel, located at the entrance to Überseestadt and thus in the immediate vicinity of Bremen's city centre, is set to become a crowd-puller similar to the Waller Sand. Planned together with citizens, the former Kellogg site is to become a green urban quarter with little car traffic, which will continue the diverse mix of uses in Überseestadt and, equipped with a promenade, green spaces and a so-called sun catcher's bay, will certainly be the destination of many visitors.
Die Gemüsewerft auf der Überseeinsel
Strolling around the Europahafen
Not far from the Überseeinsel, the Europahafen is already a meeting place for all those who want to enjoy the maritime atmosphere as well as the exciting combination of tradition and modernity. Whether you take a stroll, sit on one of the outdoor terraces of the local restaurants or bring along an after-work beer - the Europahafen is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy the beautiful view of Bremen's lifeline.
Moreover new buildings are currently being built at the head of the Europahafen that will shape the city's skyline just as many buildings in the Überseestadt already have. The Weser Tower stands out among these buildings - after all, the skyscraper designed by architect Helmut Jahn is Bremen's tallest office building.
Port Economy in the Midst of New Utilisation Concepts
While all these exciting innovations are taking place, the busy operations of historically grown commercial and port structures in Überseestadt also continue. In the timber, factory and grain harbour, interested visitors can still observe large seagoing ships loading and unloading. It is still a logistical centre for cargo ships. Mainly animal food, grain, flour and frozen products are handled here, rarely also containers.
Blick über die Weser auf den Hafen
A Creative Environment for the Finest Craftsmanship
In the midst of all the innovative buildings, ideas and projects in Überseestadt, numerous passionate producers have found the right environment for their very special manufactories. Birgitta Schulze van Loon distils and produces fine spirits directly on site at the Europahafen with her brand "
Piekfeine Brände
". Handmade Elisen gingerbread is on the menu at the glass gingerbread factory of
Manke & Coldewey
. On the Überseeinsel, the makers of the "Hopfenfänger" beer have dedicated themselves to the art of brewing at the
Bremer Braumanufaktur
. At both
Lloyd Coffee
and
Cross Coffee
, everything revolves around the coffee bean. World-famous trophies such as the Champions League trophy are made by
Koch & Bergfeld Corpus Silbermanufaktur
.
Culture and Leisure
The contrast-filled Überseestadt is definitely worth a visit. Not least because you will find an exciting range of cultural and fun activities here that you should definitely explore. In Speicher XI, for example, the
Hafenmuseum
and the
Speicherbühne
have found a creative environment for their work. The
GOP Varieté Theatre
has built its own stage at the southern end of the quarter, while the
Hafen Revue Theatre
has taken up residence in an existing building. Right next door, the
HafenRummel
awaits you with an 11-station game trail set in the harbour ambience of the 1950s. The
SchwarzLichtHof
, an indoor mini-golf course, invites you to play in the dark and under black light. Fans of oldtimer cars should definitely check out the Centre for Automotive Culture and Mobility in
Schuppen Eins
. Skate and sports enthusiasts will find their personal paradise in Überseepark.
You might also be interested in...
Lloyd Caffee
Hafenmuseum
Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Bremen Tourismus - Terms and Conditions
Home
Tourism
Bremen Tourism - Terms and Conditions
Bremen Tourism - Terms and Conditions
Why you can trust Bremen Tourism:
Bremen Tourism is a brand that stands for expert advice and the largest selection of Bremen-related tourism products and services. We are the tourism experts within the Marketing and Tourism business unit of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH (WFB), who is your contract partner, unless otherwise specified.
1. Our statement on the use of your personal data
2. Terms and conditions for package holidays of Bremen Tourism. Valid for packages with a choice of hotel.
3. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of third-party packages
4. Key rights under the EU Travel Directive
5. Terms and conditions for accommodation and accommodation-finding services
6. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of other tourism services
7. Special terms and conditions for groups of ten or more
Key rights under Directive (EU) 2015/2302
1. Our statement on the use of your personal data.
You agree to the personal data you disclose when making a booking being electronically processed, stored and used by Bremen Tourism, a brand of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH, and its affiliated companies solely for the purposes of processing orders and booking requests. The data that you supply to Bremen Tourism/WFB will never be sold or made available to third parties for reasons other than those stated above unless you have given your prior written consent. We hereby explicitly refer to the data subject’s right to object under Art. 21 of the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
2. Terms and conditions for package holidays of Bremen Tourism. Valid for packages with a choice of hotel.
So far as the following provisions have been effectively agreed, they will become the content of the travel contract agreed between you and Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH (‘WFB’). They supplement and complete the statutory provisions of sections 651a - 651y of the German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch - BGB) and Articles 250 and 252 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code (Einführungsgesetz zum BGB - EGBGB).
Please read these terms and conditions carefully before making your booking!
1. Formation of the package travel contract, customer’s obligations
1.1
. The following applies to all booking methods:
a)
The basis of the offer from WFB and the customer’s booking is the travel offer and any supplementary information from WFB for the travel concerned so far as these have been made available to the customer at the time of booking.
b)
If the content of the travel confirmation from WFB differs from the content of the booking request, this will constitute a new offer from WFB, by which WFB will be bound for a period of ten days. The contract will be formed on the basis of this new offer if WFB has pointed out the change when presenting the new offer and has thereby fulfilled its pre-contractual obligations to provide information and the customer indicates his/her acceptance of this new offer by means of explicit declaration or payment of a deposit within the period for which WFB is bound by its offer.
c)
The pre-contractual information provided by WFB on key features of the travel services, the price of the holiday and all additional costs, the payment methods, minimum group size, and standard cancellation fees (pursuant to Article 250, section 3, clauses 1, 3 to 5, and 7 EGBGB) is an integral element of the package travel contract unless the parties expressly agree otherwise.
1.2.
The booking may be made orally, by telephone, in writing, by email, by text message or by fax:
a)
The booking constitutes a binding offer from the customer to WFB to enter into a package holiday contract. The customer is bound by his or her offer for five working days.
b)
The contract is formed when the travel confirmation (declaration of acceptance) is issued by WFB. Upon or promptly after formation of the contract, WFB will send the customer a travel confirmation in writing or by electronic mail (‘text form’) that meets the statutory requirements concerning its content, unless the traveller is entitled to confirmation in paper form pursuant to Article 250 section 6 (1) sentence 2 EGBGB because the contract was concluded in the simultaneous physical presence of both parties or off premises.
c)
If WFB submits a firm and binding offer – possibly after prior consultation with the customer regarding the customer’s wishes – including services, prices and travel dates, the contract will, in derogation from the above provisions, be formed by the customer accepting this offer without additions, restrictions, or other modifications in the form and within the period specified by WFB. In this event, the contract will be formed upon receipt of the customer’s declaration of acceptance by WFB. WFB will notify the customer that it has received the declaration of acceptance. However, the legal force of the contract does not depend on the customer’s receipt of this notification.
1.3.
For bookings made by means of electronic commerce (e.g. internet, app, teleservices) the following applies in respect of the formation of the contract:
a)
The electronic booking procedure in the relevant application is explained to the customer by WFB.
b)
A correction option, whose use is explained, is available to the customer to correct or delete his/her entries, or to reset the entire booking form.
c)
The contractual languages in which the online booking may be carried out are specified. However, only the German version is legally binding.
d)
If WFB’s contract text is stored in the online booking system, the customer will be informed of this and of the possibility of accessing the contract text at a later point.
e)
By clicking ‘Book with obligation to pay’, the customer is making a binding offer to WFB to enter into the package travel contract. The customer is bound by this offer for five working days after sending the electronic declaration.
f)
The customer will be sent electronic confirmation of receipt of the booking request immediately.
g)
The transmission of the booking by clicking ‘Book with obligation to pay’ does not give the customer a right to enter into a package travel contract on the terms stated in the booking request. WFB is free to decide whether or not to accept the customer’s offer of a contract.
h)
The contract is formed when the customer receives the travel confirmation from WFB.
i)
If the travel confirmation is issued as soon as the customer has made the booking by clicking ‘Book with obligation to pay’, by means of the instant display of the travel confirmation on the screen (booking in real time), the package travel contract will be formed upon the receipt and display of this travel confirmation on the customer’s screen without the customer needing any interim notification of the receipt of his/her booking pursuant to f), provided that the customer is given the option of saving the travel confirmation on a durable medium and printing it off. Nevertheless, the binding nature of the package travel contract is not dependent on the customer actually using this option to save or print out the travel confirmation. WFB will also send the customer a copy of the travel confirmation in text form.
1.4.
WFB points out that, under the statutory provisions (section 312 (7) and section 312g (2) sentence 1, no.9 BGB), no cancellation right exists for package travel contracts as defined under section 651a or section 651c BGB that are concluded via distance selling (letters, brochures, phone calls, fax messages, emails, text messages, radio broadcasting, teleservices, and online services). Instead, the customer merely has recourse to the statutory rights of rescission and termination, and specifically to the right of rescission pursuant to section 651h BGB (see also clause 5 in this regard). A cancellation right does, however, exist if the contract concerning travel services pursuant to section 651a BGB has been concluded off premises, unless the oral negotiations upon which the contract’s formation is based were carried out on the basis of a previous order by the consumer; in the latter case, no cancellation right exists.
2. Payment
2.1.
WFB and travel agents may only demand or accept payments towards the price of the holiday before the end of the package tour if a valid contract is in place to protect the customer’s money, and the customer has been given the holiday protection insurance certificate (Sicherungsschein) with the name and contact details of the insurance provider highlighted so that they are clear and comprehensible. Upon formation of the contract, an advance payment in the amount of 10 per cent of the price of the holiday will be due for payment once the holiday protection insurance certificate has been provided. The balance will be payable 28 days prior to departure, provided that the customer has received the insurance certificate and the holiday can no longer be cancelled on the grounds specified in clause 7.
2.2.
If the travel services do not include transportation of the customer from his/her home address or other departure point to the place where the contractual services are to be rendered and/or back again, and it has been agreed on an ad hoc basis that the entire cost of the holiday should be paid for at the end of the holiday upon receipt of all travel services with no advance payment, there is no obligation to take out insolvency insurance or to provide the customer with a holiday protection insurance certificate. This applies even if an advance payment and/or balancing payment prior to the end of the holiday has been agreed, but WFB has expressly waived any such advance payment or deposit in the booking confirmation.
2.3.
If the customer fails to make the advance payment and/or balancing payment in accordance with the agreed due dates, although WFB is willing and able to render its contractual services in due form, has met its statutory obligations to provide information, and no statutory or contractual right of retention exists on the part of the customer, WFB is entitled to cancel the package travel contract after issuing a reminder with a payment deadline, and to charge any cancellation costs pursuant to clause 5 to the customer.
3. Pre-travel changes to the contractual content that do not affect the price of the holiday
3.1.
If, after the contract has been concluded, it becomes necessary to change key features of the travel services so that they differ from the agreed content of the package travel contract, WFB is permitted to make these changes prior to departure, provided that WFB did not act contrary to the principles of good faith in making the changes, and that they are minor and do not adversely affect the standard of the holiday as a whole.
3.2.
WFB is obliged to inform the customer of any changes to its services promptly upon becoming aware of the reason for the change. This notification must be on a durable medium (including by email, text message, or voice message), and must be clear, comprehensible, and explicitly highlighted.
3.3.
In the event of a significant change to a key feature of a travel service, or a deviation from the customer’s specific requirements that had become a part of the package travel contract, the customer will be given a reasonable period – to be set by WFB concomitantly with its notification of the change – during which the customer is entitled either to accept the change or to rescind the package travel contract free of charge. If the customer does not expressly inform WFB that he/she is rescinding the package travel contract within the period provided, the change will be deemed to have been accepted.
3.4.
This will not prejudice any claims under warranty if the altered services prove defective. If WFB incurs lower costs in providing the amended holiday or any substitute holiday of the same quality and the same price, the customer shall be reimbursed for the difference, pursuant to section 651m (2) BGB.
4. Increase or reduction in the price
4.1.
In accordance with section 651f and section 651g BGB and the provisions below, WFB reserves the right to increase the price of the holiday agreed in the package travel contract if the price of the holiday is directly affected by an increase in taxes and other charges for agreed services, such as tourist taxes.
4.2.
An increase in the price of the holiday is only permissible if WFB informs the traveller of the price increase in text form, setting out the information in a clear, understandable way, with reasons for the increase and a calculation of the actual amount.
4.3.
Price increases will be calculated as follows: Where taxes or other charges have been increased pursuant to 4.1, the price of the holiday can be raised by the corresponding, proportionate amount.
4.4.
WFB is obliged to grant the customer/traveller a reduction in the price of the holiday at the request of the customer/traveller if and to the extent that the charges mentioned in 4.1 have changed since the contract was entered into and prior to departure, and this has resulted in lower costs for WFB. If the customer/traveller has paid more than the revised amount due, the excess amount must be reimbursed by WFB. However, WFB is permitted to deduct any administrative costs that it actually incurs from the reimbursable amount. At the customer/traveller’s request, WFB must provide evidence of the amount of administrative costs incurred.
4.5.
Notification of any price increase must reach the customer at least 20 days prior to travel.
4.6.
If prices increase by more than 8 per cent, the customer will be given a reasonable period – to be set by WFB concomitantly with its notification of the price increase – during which the customer is entitled either to accept the change or to rescind the package travel contract without charge. If the customer does not expressly inform WFB that he/she is rescinding the package travel contract within the period provided, the change will be deemed to have been accepted.
5. Cancellation by the customer prior to departure; cancellation costs
5.1.
The customer may cancel the package travel contract at any time prior to departure. Notice of cancellation must be given to WFB at the address provided above/below. If the holiday was booked via a travel agent, notice of cancellation may also be given to the travel agent. Customers are advised to give notice of cancellation in text form.
5.2.
If the customer cancels prior to departure or does not take up the holiday, WFB will not be entitled to the price of the holiday. Instead, WFB may demand appropriate compensation if it is not responsible for the cancellation, or if unavoidable, unusual circumstances at or in the immediate vicinity of the travel destination severely hamper the execution of the package or the transportation of passengers to the travel destination; Circumstances are regarded as unavoidable and unusual if they are outside the control of WFB and their consequences could not have been avoided even if all reasonable precautions had been taken.
5.3.
In determining the following fixed compensation amounts, WFB has taken account of the period between the notice of cancellation and departure, the expected cost savings, and the anticipated profit from any alternative use of its travel services. The compensation will be calculated from the time at which notification of cancellation was received and using the relevant cancellation percentage as follows: Applicable cancellation fee per the travel offer as a percentage of the travel price
Pre-departure receipt
Up to 8 days free of charge
7 to 1 day(s) 80 %
On the day of arrival and no-shows 90 %
For package offers for groups of 10 or more, see 7. Special terms and conditions for groups of 10 or more.
5.4.
In any event the customer remains at liberty to furnish evidence to WFB demonstrating that WFB did not incur any loss, or that the loss was significantly less than the fixed compensation demanded by WFB.
5.5.
WFB reserves the right to demand a higher, specific compensation amount instead of the fixed percentages referred to above, provided that it can prove that it incurred significantly higher costs than the applicable fixed compensation amount. In this event, WFB is obliged to provide details and evidence of the specific amount of compensation demanded, taking account of the expenses saved and any alternative use of the travel services.
5.6.
If WFB is obliged to refund the price of the holiday as a result of a cancellation, it must make this payment without undue delay, and always within 14 days of receipt of the notice of cancellation.
5.7.
The statutory right of the customer pursuant to section 651e BGB to demand from WFB by means of a notice in a durable medium that a third party take over his/her rights and duties under the package travel contract in his/her place will remain unaffected by the above provisions. Any such declaration is deemed to have been made in time if it is received by WFB seven days prior to departure.
5.8.
The taking out of travel cancellation insurance and insurance to cover the cost of repatriation in the event of an accident or illness is strongly recommended.
6. Changes to bookings
6.1.
Once the contract has been concluded, the customer is not entitled to change the travel date, travel destination, place where the holiday commences, accommodation, catering, means of transport, or other services (changes to the booking). This does not apply if changes to the booking are necessary because WFB has provided the traveller with no pre-contractual information at all, or with insufficient or incorrect pre-contractual information pursuant to Article 250, section 3 EGBGB; in this event, the booking can be changed free of charge. If, in other cases, a booking is nevertheless changed at the customer’s request, WFB may charge the customer a rebooking fee for each traveller affected by the rebooking, provided that the deadlines referred to below are met. If nothing is else is agreed on an ad hoc basis before the change to the booking is approved, the rebooking fee will amount to €20.00 per traveller affected up to the point of commencement of the second cancellation tier for the relevant type of holiday, in accordance with the above provision in clause 5.
6.2.
Rebooking requests made by the customer after the expiry of the deadlines may only be effected – if rebookings are possible at all – by cancelling the package travel contract in accordance with the conditions in clause 5 and simultaneously making a new booking. This does not apply to rebooking requests that only entail negligible costs.
7. -
8. Termination for reasons relating to conduct
8.1.
WFB may terminate the package travel contract without notice if the traveller continuously disrupts the holiday despite being warned by WFB to desist or if he/she acts in breach of contract to such an extent that the immediate cancellation of the contract is justified. This does not apply if the conduct in breach of the contract is based on an infringement by WFB of its obligations to provide information.
8.2.
If WFB terminates the contract, it retains its claim to the price of the holiday; however, WFB must deduct the value of the expenses saved and benefits gained from the alternative use of the service not utilised by the traveller, including any sums credited to it by the service providers.
9. Obligations of the customer/traveller
9.1.
Travel documents
The customer must inform WFB or the travel agent with whom the package holiday was booked if the customer does not receive the necessary travel documents (e.g. rail ticket, hotel voucher) within the period stated by WFB.
9.2.
Reporting problems; requesting a remedy
a)
If the holiday is not provided in accordance with the terms of the contract, the traveller is entitled to demand a remedy.
b)
If WFB is unable to effect a remedy due to a culpable failure to report the problem, the traveller is not entitled to claim a reduction in the price pursuant to section 651m BGB or to claim compensation pursuant to section 651n BGB
c)
The traveller is obliged to report any shortcomings to WFB’s local representative without undue delay. If no local WFB representative is available and WFB is not contractually obliged to have a local representative available, any problems with the holiday should be brought to the attention of WFB through its nominated contact agent; details of WFB’s representative and/or its local contact agent are provided in the travel confirmation. However, the traveller can also report the shortcomings to the travel agent through whom he/she booked the package holiday.
d)
WFB’s representative is charged with rectifying any problems, where possible, although the representative is not authorised to admit any claims.
9.3. Grace period prior to termination
If the customer/traveller wishes to terminate the package travel contract in accordance with section 651l BGB due to a shortcoming with the holiday of the type described in section 651i (2) BGB, so far as this shortcoming is substantial, the customer/traveller must first set WFB a reasonable grace period to remedy the problem. The only instance in which this will not apply is if WFB refuses to effect a remedy or if an immediate resolution is necessary.
10. Limitation of liability
10.1.
The contractual liability of WFB for loss or damage that does not result from death, physical injury or damage to health and has not been culpably caused is limited to three times the price of the holiday. Any possible claims in excess of this under the Montreal Convention or the German Air Traffic Act (Luftverkehrsgesetz) remain unaffected by this limitation of liability.
10.2.
WFB is not liable for interruptions to services, personal injury, or damage to property in relation to services for which it acted merely as an agent (e.g. excursions, sports events, visits to the theatre, and exhibitions) if these services were expressly designated in the travel offer and travel confirmation as services rendered by a third party, stating the identity and address of the contract partner providing the service so clearly that the traveller was able to identify the services as not forming part of WFB’s package tour and could select them separately. Sections 651b, 651c, 651w and 651y BGB remain unaffected. However, WFB is liable if and to the extent that any loss or damage suffered by the traveller is caused by a breach of WFB’s obligations to inform, explain, or organise.
11. Pursuit of claims, addressee
Claims pursuant to section 651i (3) no. 2 and no. 47 BGB must be pursued by the customer/traveller against WFB. Claims can also be pursued via the travel agent if the package holiday was booked through this travel agent. We recommend that claims are asserted in text form.
12. Alternative dispute resolution, choice of law and jurisdiction
12.1.
The WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH does not participate in any dispute resolution proceedings.
The European Commission has set up an online dispute resolution platform.
You can use this online dispute resolution platform as a consumer for the out-of-court settlement of disputes arising from online purchase or service contracts. The complaint can therefore also be submitted via the
OS-Plattform der EU
.
12.2.
For customers/travellers who are not nationals of a Member State of the European Union or citizens of Switzerland, the exclusive application of German law is agreed for the entire legal and contractual relationship between the customer/traveller and WFB. Customers/travellers falling into this category may only sue WFB at its registered office.
12.3.
The court with jurisdiction over the registered office of WFB is agreed for legal actions by WFB against customers or parties to the package travel contract that are businesses, legal entities incorporated under public or private law or persons who have their domicile or usual place of residence abroad, or whose domicile or usual place of residence is unknown at the time the action is filed.
3. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of third-party packages
We can also arrange package holidays for you that are provided by our hotel partners. Bremen Tourism acts as a booking office on behalf and for the account of the hotel/operator. Any contractual relations arising in respect of the service exist solely between the guest and hotel/operator. The terms and conditions of business of the hotel/operator apply. These are available on the website or you can request a copy from us. The hotel/operator provides all services independently. The hotel/operator alone is responsible for ensuring that the service is provided in accordance with the terms of the contract. Once a booking has been confirmed, the only contract between the guest and WFB will be an agency agreement. Under this agency agreement, WFB will be obliged to provide comprehensive information and advice and ensure that the agency service is properly performed. In the event of complaints, the guest should therefore contact the hotel/operator without undue delay and demand a remedy. Should this complaint prove fruitless, WFB is willing to act as arbiter.
4. Key rights under the EU Travel Directive:
The ‘packages with choice of hotel’ and ‘hotel packages’ options and some combinations of experiences and overnight stay/s are package tours within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2015/2302. In these cases we have already informed you about your key rights and our customer payment protection in accordance with this Directive before the completion of the booking (in the shopping basket during your online booking, personally if you have made your booking by telephone or by email if you have sent us a form). You can find further useful information at bremen-tourismus.de
5. Terms and conditions for accommodation and accommodation-finding services
WFB arranges accommodation with lodging establishments and private landlords (e.g. hotels, B&Bs and holiday apartments), collectively referred to below as ‘Accommodation Providers’, in accordance with current vacancies. The following terms and conditions, so far as effectively agreed, form part of the accommodation contract between the guest and the Accommodation Provider when a booking is made and govern the contractual relations between the guest and the Accommodation Provider, as well as the agency services provided by WFB, supplementing the statutory provisions. We would therefore ask that you read these Terms and Conditions carefully.
1. Status of WFB
1.1.
Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH – WFB– acts solely as agent unless otherwise explicitly agreed.
1.2.
It accepts no liability for information supplied by the Accommodation Provider, nor for services or disruption to services to be provided by the Accommodation Provider. The foregoing provision does not affect any liability of WFB arising under the agency agreement.
2. Formation of the contract, travel agent, information in hotel guides
2.1.
The booking constitutes a binding offer from the guest to the Accommodation Provider to conclude an accommodation contract. This offer is based on the description of the accommodation and the supplementary information in the booking materials (e.g. description of location, classification notes), so far as the customer has access to these.
2.2.
Travel agents - with the exception of WFB itself - are not authorised to conclude agreements, supply information or make representations which vary the agreed content of the contract, extend beyond the contractually agreed services of the Accommodation Provider or conflict with the description of the accommodation.
2.3.
Information in hotel guides and similar directories not published by WFB or the Accommodation Provider are not binding upon the Accommodation Provider and do not constitute part of its contractual duty unless they have been made part of the Accommodation Provider’s duty through explicit agreement with the guest.
2.4.
The booking may be made orally, in writing, by telephone, fax or electronically (email, internet). Where bookings are made electronically the guest will be sent electronic confirmation of receipt of the booking request immediately.
2.5.
The contract is formed upon receipt of the declaration of acceptance (booking confirmation) from the Accommodation Provider or WFB as the agent of the Accommodation Provider. The declaration of acceptance does not require a specific form, so confirmations received orally or by telephone are legally binding upon both guest and Accommodation Provider. Generally, the guest will also receive written confirmation of the booking from the Accommodation Provider or from WFB acting as its agent.
2.6.
If the content of the booking confirmation varies from the content of the booking, this constitutes a new offer on the part of the Accommodation Provider. The contract will be formed on the basis of this new offer if the guest indicates his or her acceptance of this offer by means of explicit declaration, payment of a deposit or the balance, or use of the accommodation.
2.7.
If the Accommodation Provider or WFB makes a special offer at the request of the guest or the booking party, then, notwithstanding the above provisions, this shall constitute a binding contract offer from the Accommodation Provider to the guest or the booking party. In such a case the contract is formed, without further confirmation from the Accommodation Provider or WFB, if the guest or the booking party accepts this offer within the period stipulated in the offer without qualification, modification or addition, through explicit declaration, payment of a deposit or the balance, or use of the accommodation.
3. Non-binding reservations
3.1.
Non-binding reservations which the guest may cancel without charge are permitted only by explicit agreement with WFB or the Accommodation Provider.
3.2.
Unless a non-binding reservation has explicitly been agreed, the booking made in accordance with clause 2 (Formation of contract) of these conditions constitutes a contract which is legally binding upon the Accommodation Provider and the guest/booking party.
3.3.
If a non-binding reservation has been agreed, the Accommodation Provider shall keep the requested accommodation free until the agreed date to allow the guest to make the booking. The guest shall notify WFB or the Accommodation Provider by this date whether he/she wishes the booking to be regarded as binding upon him/her too. If no such notification is received, the reservation will be cancelled with no further notification obligation on the part of the WFB or the Accommodation Provider. If notification is given within the stipulated period, the booking will become binding irrespective of any booking confirmation from the Accommodation Provider or WFB.
4. Prices and services
4.1.
The prices quoted in the brochure are final prices and include value-added tax at the statutory rate and, unless otherwise specified, all additional expenses. Resort tax and tourist tax may apply and will be shown separately, along with charges for consumption-based services (e.g. electricity, gas, water, firewood) and for optional and additional services.
4.2.
The services to be provided by the Accommodation Provider are defined solely by the content of the booking confirmation in conjunction with the applicable brochure or the description of the property, and by any supplementary agreements expressly agreed with the guest/booking party. The guest/booking party is advised to record any supplementary agreements in writing.
4.3.
An administration fee of €20.00 may be charged for each change to a booking (change to accommodation type, arrival or departure date, length of stay, meals taken) unless the guest has a legal right to make such changes. This does not apply if the change is minor.
5. Payment
5.1.
The dates on which the deposit and balance are due are those dates agreed with the guest or the booking party and specified in the booking confirmation. In the absence of any special arrangement, the full price for the accommodation including charges for additional expenses and additional services shall be payable at the end of the stay to the Accommodation Provider.
5.2.
For stays of more than one week the Accommodation Provider may, at the end of each week, request payment for the days already stayed and for additional services (such as meals not included in the price of the accommodation, items taken from the mini-bar).
5.3.
The Accommodation Provider may also demand a deposit of 20 per cent of the total price, even if this is not explicitly mentioned in the booking confirmation.
5.4.
If the guest fails to pay an agreed deposit or fails to do so in full despite having no contractual or statutory right to withhold payment, and despite having received a reminder from the Accommodation Provider specifying a deadline by which this payment must be made, and if the Accommodation Provider is willing and able to provide the contractual services, then the Accommodation Provider will be entitled to cancel the contract and to charge the guest cancellation costs in accordance with clause 6 of these terms and conditions.
6. Cancellation and no-show
6.1.
If the guest cancels the booking or fails to turn up, the Accommodation Provider shall be entitled to demand payment of the agreed price including charges for meals and additional services.
6.2.
The Accommodation Provider must attempt, within the scope of its normal business operations but without any obligation to make any special effort, to find an alternative use for the booked accommodation, taking account of any special characteristics (e.g. non-smoking room, family room).
6.3.
The Accommodation Provider shall deduct the price of an alternative booking or, if this is not possible, any expenditure saved.
6.4.
According to the percentage rates established in court decisions for assessing costs saved, the guest or booking party shall pay the Accommodation Provider the following amounts, based in each case on the total price of the accommodation services (including all additional expenses), but excluding public charges such as tourist or resort tax:
For holiday apartments/self-catering accommodation 90 per cent
For bed and breakfast 80 per cent
For half-board 70 per cent
For full-board 60 per cent
6.5.
The guest/booking party is expressly entitled to provide evidence to the Accommodation Provider that the cost savings were significantly greater than the aforementioned cancellation charges, or that an alternative use was found for the accommodation or other services. If such evidence is provided the guest or the booking party is only required to pay the lesser amount.
6.6.
We strongly recommend that guests arrange travel cancellation insurance.
6.7.
Due to the booking procedures, the notice of cancellation must be sent to Bremen Tourism (not the Accommodation Provider). In the interests of the guest, we recommend that such notification be sent in writing.
7. Duties of the customer
7.1.
The guest is obliged to inform the Accommodation Provider of any problems and defects and to demand a remedy immediately. Any complaints should be reported in the first instance to the relevant Accommodation Provider. If the problem is not remedied, the guest should inform WFB, which will try to resolve the issue. Reporting a problem to WFB only is not sufficient. Culpable failure to report the problem may render the guest’s claims invalid.
7.2.
The guest is entitled to terminate the contract only in the event of substantial defects or problems. He or she must first report the problem to the Accommodation Provider and allow a reasonable period for the defect to be remedied, unless remedy is impossible or is refused by the Accommodation Provider or if immediate termination is justified by a particular interest of the guest which is clear to the Accommodation Provider or if it would be objectively unreasonable to expect the guest to continue the stay for such reasons.
8. Liability
8.1.
The contractual liability of the Accommodation Provider for damage other than physical injury is limited to three times the price of the holiday, unless the guest’s loss has been caused intentionally or through gross negligence on the part of the Accommodation Provider or unless the Accommodation Provider is responsible for damage sustained by the guest solely because of the fault of an agent engaged to assist in the performance of its obligations.
8.2.
This does not affect the innkeepers’ liability of the Accommodation Provider, so far as such exists, for items brought into the property pursuant to sections 701 et seq. German Civil Code (BGB).
8.3.
The Accommodation Provider is not liable for defective performance in connection with services which are merely arranged with third party providers (e.g. sporting events, theatre visits, exhibitions etc.) during the stay and which are identifiable to the guest/booking party as third-party services. The same applies to third-party services which were arranged in conjunction with the accommodation booking, so far as these are expressly identified as third-party services in the brochure description or booking confirmation.
9. Statute of limitations
9.1.
Claims under contract of the guest/booking party against the Accommodation Provider or against WFB arising from death, physical injury or damage to health including contractual claims to compensation for pain and suffering, which are caused by their negligent breach of duty or an intentional or negligent breach of duty by their statutory representatives or agents employed to assist in the performance of their obligations, become statute-barred after three years. This also applies to claims for compensation for other loss caused by grossly negligent breach of duty by the Accommodation Provider, or by WFB or by an intentional or grossly negligent breach of duty by their statutory representatives or agents.
9.2.
All other contractual claims become statute-barred after one year.
9.3.
The statute-barring of claims under the above provisions shall commence at the end of the year in which the claim arose and the guest/booking party became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the claim and in which the Accommodation Provider or WFB became aware of its liability, or ought to have become aware had it not been for gross negligence.
9.4.
If the guest and the Accommodation Provider or WFB engage in negotiations concerning the claims or the circumstances giving rise to the claim, the period of limitation will be suspended until the guest or the Accommodation Provider or WFB refuses to continue the negotiations. The aforementioned one-year period of limitation will take effect no sooner than three months after the end of the period of suspension.
10. Choice of law and jurisdiction
10.1.
The contractual relationship between the guest or booking party and the Accommodation Provider or WFB shall be governed exclusively by German law. The same also applies to the legal relationship as a whole.
10.2.
The guest or booking party may only bring legal action against the Accommodation Provider or WFB at the court with jurisdiction over the domicile of the Accommodation Provider or of WFB respectively.
10.3.
Claims of the Accommodation Provider or WFB against the guest or the booking party must be brought at the court with jurisdiction over the customer’s place of residence. For actions against guests or booking parties which are businesses, legal entities incorporated under public or private law, or persons who have their domicile/business address or usual place of residence abroad, or whose domicile/business address or usual place of residence is unknown at the time the action is filed, the registered office of the Accommodation Provider is agreed as the place of jurisdiction.
10.4.
The above provisions do not apply if and to the extent that other mandatory provisions of European law or other international provisions are applicable.
11. Dispute resolution
11.1.
The WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH does not participate in any dispute resolution proceedings.
The European Commission has set up an online dispute resolution platform.
You can use this online dispute resolution platform as a consumer for the out-of-court settlement of disputes arising from online purchase or service contracts. The complaint can therefore also be submitted via the OS-Plattform der EU.
6. Terms and conditions governing the arrangement of other tourism services
WFB arranges various services for you on behalf of our partners (guided tours, tickets, meals and refreshments etc.). Bremen Tourism acts as a booking office on behalf and for the account of the provider of other services. Any contractual relations arising in respect of the service exist solely between the guest and the provider of the services. The terms and conditions of business of the provider apply. These are available on the website or you can request a copy from WFB. The provider will supply the arranged service under its own responsibility. Your contract partners alone are responsible for ensuring that the service is provided in accordance with the terms of the contract.
When a booking has been confirmed, the only contract between the guest and WFB will be an agency agreement. Under this agency agreement, WFB will be obliged to provide comprehensive information and advice and ensure that the agency service is properly performed.
In the event of complaints, the guest should therefore contact his or her contract partner immediately and demand a remedy. Should this complaint prove fruitless, WFB is willing to act as arbiter.
Please note that, particularly in the case of admission tickets, event tickets, guided tours and trips, tickets cannot be returned and bookings cannot be amended unless otherwise specifically agreed in writing at the time of booking.
7. Special terms and conditions for groups of ten or more
Terms of payment
A 20 per cent deposit is payable at the time the contract is entered into; the balance is due four weeks before the start of the holiday. Where bookings are made less than four weeks before the start of the holiday, the full price is payable immediately. Guided tours (without any other services included) must be paid for at least 14 days prior to the date of travel.
Terms and conditions for cancellations and changes to the booking
We recommend that guests arrange travel cancellation insurance.
Accommodation service
The terms and conditions of the relevant hotel apply. We will advise you of these prior to booking and they will be shown on your booking confirmation. We need the names of all members of your party no later than 30 days before arrival or, for late bookings, at the time of booking. If travel cancellation insurance has been purchased, any members of your party whose names are not listed on the policy will not be covered by this insurance.
Individual tour modules, meals and refreshments, one-day itineraries, and guided tours
No charge is made for cancellation or changes to the booking up to 15 days before the date of arrival. If the rebooking requires additional expense or work, Bremen Tourism reserves the right to charge an administration fee of €20.00.
14 days or less before the start of the holiday: charge of €20.00
On the day of arrival and no-shows: 100 per cent of the total cost of the holiday
If the service provider has any special terms and conditions, we will advise you of these prior to booking and they will be shown on your booking confirmation.
Group package holidays of Bremen Tourism with a choice of hotel.
No charge for cancellation or changes to the booking up to 8 days before the date of arrival.
7 - 1 day(s) prior to arrival date: 80 per cent of the total cost of the holiday.
On the day of arrival and no-shows: 90 per cent of the total cost of the holiday.
Our group packages have a minimum group size of ten people. If the group size falls below this minimum number due to cancellations, the remaining participants will be offered the choice of changing their booking or paying a higher price per person.
Contacts:
Bremen Tourism
Tel. 0421 30 800 10
bremen-tourism.de
info@bremen-tourism.de
WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen
Ansgaritorstraße 11
28195 Bremen
wfb-bremen.de
Board of Directors:
Andreas Heyer (Vors.), Oliver Rau
Chairman of the Supervisory Board:
Senator Kristina Vogt
Registered office:
Bremen, HRB 3354
Key rights under Directive (EU) 2015/2302
Travellers will receive all essential information about the package before concluding the package travel contract.
There is always at least one trader who is liable for the proper performance of all the travel services included in the contract.
Travellers are given an emergency telephone number or details of a contact point where they can get in touch with the organiser or the travel agent.
Travellers may transfer the package to another person, on reasonable notice and possibly subject to additional costs.
The price of the package may only be increased if specific costs rise (for instance, fuel prices) and if expressly provided for in the contract, and in any event not later than 20 days before the start of the package. If the price increase exceeds 8 % of the price of the package, the traveller may terminate the contract. If the organiser reserves the right to a price increase, the traveller has a right to a price reduction if there is a decrease in the relevant costs.
Travellers may terminate the contract without paying any termination fee and get a full refund of any payments if any of the essential elements of the package, other than the price, are changed significantly. If before the start of the package the trader responsible for the package cancels the package, travellers are entitled to a refund and compensation where appropriate.
Travellers may terminate the contract without paying any termination fee before the start of the package in the event of exceptional circumstances, for instance if there are serious security problems at the destination which are likely to affect the package.
Additionally, travellers may at any time before the start of the package terminate the contract in return for an appropriate and justifiable termination fee.
If, after the start of the package, significant elements of the package cannot be provided as agreed, suitable alternative arrangements will have to be offered to the traveller at no extra cost. Travellers may terminate the contract without paying any termination fee, where services are not performed in accordance with the contract and this substantially affects the performance of the package and the organiser fails to remedy the problem.
Travellers are also entitled to a price reduction and/or compensation for damages where the travel services are not performed or are improperly performed.
The organiser has to provide assistance if the traveller is in difficulty.
Directive (EU) 2015/2302 as transposed into national law
Böttcherstraße Museums - Unique Architecture and Collections
Böttcherstraße Museums
Unique architecture houses unique collections.
The picturesque street in the heart of Bremen is world-famous for its brick architecture. The museums are the cultural highlight of the street. The Böttcherstraße museums are the architectural and cultural highlight of Bremen's secret main street. They include the Ludwig Roselius Museum, an old Bremen patrician house from the 16th century with works from the Middle Ages to the Baroque period, and the Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum, a fantastic building by the sculptor, craftsman and architect Bernhard Hoetger. It is one of the most important examples of expressionist architecture in Germany.
Please note
The Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum will be closed from 22 January to 9 February 2024 due to the renovation of the new exhibition "Fascination Cave". The museum will reopen on 10 February.
Digital Museum Visit
3D tours of the Böttcherstraße museums possible
From now on, individual rooms of the
Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum
and a large part of the
Ludwig Roselius Museum
can be visited digitally in a three-dimensional tour. Parts of the collections are already online on the Google Arts and Culture platform and are now supplemented by insights into a total of nine rooms in the two museums in the heart of Bremen's city centre.
On display are major works, landscapes, nudes and mother-and-child depictions by Paula Modersohn-Becker as well as the masterpieces by Lucas Cranach the Elder and Tilman Riemenschneider in the Ludwig Roselius Museum. Dr Frank Schmidt comments on the new digital offer: "Especially now that people are only allowed to move within a very limited radius, we want to meet the continuing great interest in art and culture with these new 3D tours. I don't believe that the online tour will replace an actual visit to the museum, but it is an opportunity to get to know our museum, especially for those interested in visiting from outside, and an argument for making up for the visit once the situation has normalised."
The link to the 3D tours can be found at
.
Paula Modersohn-Becker: Evidence of All Creative Phases
The Paula Modersohn-Becker Museum is the first museum in the world to be dedicated to the work of a female painter. The patron and businessman Ludwig Roselius brought together a selection of the painter's major works, which are now complemented by the rich holdings of the Paula Modersohn-Becker Foundation. Paintings from all of the painter's creative phases attest to her outstanding status as a pioneer of modern painting around 1900.
In this way, Paula Modersohn-Becker's path to a new formal language is impressively illustrated to visitors. Jenny Holzer's homage "For Paula Modersohn-Becker" has been on display in the museum's stairwell since May 2005. Special exhibitions complement the collection presentations.
Bernhard Hoetger: The Most Extensive Collection
The Böttcherstraße museums also house the most extensive collection of works by Bernhard Hoetger, ranging from sculptures from the Parisian period influenced by Auguste Rodin to his late work.
The Ludwig Roselius Museum presents a valuable collection of Gothic, Renaissance and Baroque art and crafts in the authentic atmosphere of the oldest building on the street. Highlights include works by Lucas Cranach and Tilmann Riemenschneider as well as the historical silver treasure of the "Compagnie der Schwarzen Häupter aus Riga".
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Böttcherstraße Museums
Homepage
You might also be interested in...
Schnoor Quarter
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Day Trips to the North Sea Coast - Along the Coast
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Day Trips to the North Sea Coast
It's all possible within easy reach of Bremen!
Take a boat trip out to Helgoland, set sail on the sea, gaze at gargantuan cruise ships. It's all possible within easy reach of Bremen – on the North Sea coast!
Dangast
Besides beautiful beach and sea sceneries, the small fishing village Dangast on the North Sea coast attracts you with culture and art! You can even admire one or the other piece of art directly on the beach. During the summer months, you can hop on a ship that takes you to areas where you can spot seals or to a famous bay named Jadebusen. If you prefer it a little quieter, just relax at the sandy beach or enjoy wellness services on site!
Dorum-Neufeld
Dorum-Neufeld is a small place by the North Sea, which has a lot to offer! In less than an hour you can reach the coastal town by car. Depending on the tide, you can swim in the refreshing North Sea or walk across the mudflats! If you prefer an outdoor swimming pool, you can swim at the Watt'n Bad with artificial waves. You can end the day in the heart of the town with a meal of fresh fish.
All Aboard for Heligoland!
Experience a genuine sea voyage to Germany's only remote offshore island,
Heligoland
, with its unique unspoilt nature, pure air and duty free shopping. From Cuxhaven, you can travel in comfort to the island of Heligoland on the
Halunder Jet catamaran operated by FRS Helgoline
. Between late April and early November, the catamaran runs daily at 11.30am from the Alte Liebe in Cuxhaven directly to the harbour at Heligoland in only 75 minutes – and no additional boats are required for disembarkation. Cuxhaven-Heligoland is the shortest and most reliable connection to this remote offshore island.
Sahlenburg
In Sahlenburg, a 10 km long sandy beach awaits you, where you can go for a swim, walk across the mudflats, or just relax. Make sure to inform yourself about the tides beforehand! Particularly surfers will cherish the mild breeze of the North Sea! If it gets too warm for you in the sun, you can hike through the coastal forest nearby to discover the flora and fauna or visit the outdoor swimming pool, which is located in the middle of the forest, but close to the beach.
Der Strand in Sahlenburg.
Sailing Ships Mercedes and Eldorado
Let the winds dictate your course! On day trips aboard the luxury
Mercedes
brig or the sailing ship
Eldorado
, you will be well looked after by a professional crew. The sailing ship Mercedes, one of the most recent additions to the international fleet of tall ships, is luxuriously finished with fine wood, leather sofas and brass handrails. The crew is ready to take care of your every need, the barman serves refreshing drinks and the chef cooks and bakes on board. You can lend a hand with setting the sails and even take the wheel on the bridge. The trips are suitable for children and families, and the ship meets the strictest safety requirements for commercial passenger transport.
Bremerhaven
Bremerhaven is a great destination for a day trip with various maritime highlights. It is less than 60 kilometres away from Bremen and directly located on the North Sea coast. Bremerhaven offers various things do to: you can enjoy the sun and views of the seaside town on the Weser Dike, you can dip your feet in the sea at the River Weser Lido or you can visit the zoo! Since 1928 polar bears, seals and sea lions have been among the attractions at the Zoo at the Sea. If you want to experience the culinary delights of the North Sea coast, a trip to the Schaufenster Fischereihafen is just the thing for you! Here you will find various traditional restaurants and a small fish market!
Weiterlesen
Chilling in Schillig
You are in the mood for vacation and dream of white sandy beaches? No problem! By car you can reach the seaside resort of
Schillig
in about 1 1/2 hours. Shell collectors, beach vacationers and kite surfers will get their money's worth here!
Off to the Island
Advice and useful information for your Bremen trip
Maritime Bremen
Excursions
24 Hours in Bremen
Stadtwerder and Lake Werdersee
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
The River Weser - Bremen's Lifeline
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
The River Weser - Bremen's Lifeline
The River Weser - Bremen's Lifeline
Enjoy life by the river.
It rises in the Weserbergland region "where the Werra and Fulda kiss" and is in many ways the lifeline and heart of the Hanseatic City of Bremen: the Weser.
Geographically, the Weser forms a cross-section of the city through which it meanders from Obervieland in the southeast to Vegesack in the northwest. This is how the city area is commonly divided into "left of the Weser" and "right of the Weser". The location on the river was already decisive when the city was first settled. From then on, the Weser had a decisive influence on the development of the city. Due to the direct connection of the Lower Weser to the North Sea, Bremen participated in maritime trade, became part of the Hanseatic League and a city of great economic importance.
Strolling and Relaxing along the Weser
The Weser is also the centre of many activities for many Bremeners in their free time. Whether it's a walk along the dyke or the many promenades, a visit to the numerous bars and restaurants at
Schlachte
or
Überseestadt
, or the extensive green spaces like at Osterdeich, which invite you to relax and sunbathe - people meet at the Weser and allow themselves some downtime. The Weser even has
beaches
to offer: At
Café Sand
or Waller Sand you can relax from everyday life with real holiday flair.
Fitness in and along the river
For those who like it sporty, extensive networks of paths along the river offer opportunities for cycling, jogging or inline skating. But activities on the river such as rowing or sailing are also becoming increasingly popular.
Bathing and swimming, on the other hand, is only allowed in the Weser at Café Sand, and here too caution is advised: Heavy barges often sail in the navigation channel, and swimmers should not get in their way. The current is also very dangerous on some days and is easily underestimated.
Water Sports in Bremen
Active on and in the Water
Boats, Canoes, Paddleboards and more
Rental services in Bremen
You might also be interested in...
Maritime Bremen
Parks and Recreation
Stadtwerder and Lake Werdersee
Sights in Bremen
The Hanseatic city has a lot to offer
Ships on the Weser
The Submarine Bunker Valentin Memorial in Bremen-Farge
Bunker Valentin Memorial
Memorial and Educational Site in Bremen-Farge
The Bunker Valentin is a memorial site in remembrance of the war and the crimes committed by the Nazi regime. The memorial grounds opened to the public in November 2015 with a visitors centre, information trail and exhibition about the history of the bunker.
A War-Time Construction Site
The Bunker Valentin is the ruin of a submarine shipyard of the German Navy from World War II. Covering more than 35,000 square metres, it is the largest free-standing bunker in Germany. From 1943 to 1945, thousands of forced labourers from all over Europe were put to work here: civilians, prisoners-of-war and concentration camp inmates. More than 1,100 people died during construction from starvation, illness and arbitrary killings.
Over a period of five years, the grounds of the memorial were redesigned and opened to the public in November 2015. An information trail with 25 stations tells the history of the bunker with historical photos, eyewitness accounts and short explanatory texts. The route begins at the memorial “Annihilation through Work” and continues into the visitors centre and on to the other stations on the grounds. More in-depth information is provided by the exhibition, a media table with projections and a multimedia guide, which is available for loan free of charge.
History of the Bunker with Submarine Shipyard
The Bunker “Valentin” in Bremen-Farge was one of the largest military projects in Nazi Germany. From 1943 to 1945, thousands of forced labourers from all over Europe worked at the bunker construction site. In the decades following the war, a debate ensued over what to do with the shipyard that had been built with slave labour. Once consideration was to completely demolish the massive concrete hangar. In the 1960s, the German Navy used a part of the building as a storage depot. Special permission was required to enter the bunker’s compound. In 2010, following the departure of the Navy, the Senate of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen commissioned the Regional Agency for Civic Education to create and run the Bunker Valentin as a memorial and educational history site.
Tours
Public tours (German): Sundays 11 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.
Group tours: Advance booking necessary (max. 25 people)
Foreign language tours: Advance booking necessary
Audio guide; on loan free of charge in German, German for kids, and English
Book now
Bunker Valentin
Bunker Valentin
Guided Tour for Groups
Bunker Valentin
Homepage
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
You might also be interested in...
Must-See Attractions
Kunsthalle Bremen
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Overbeck-Museum
About Us
Home
About us
About Us
Bremen Online: The city portal and social media team
On bremen.de and bremen.eu citizens, tourists and companies can find all kinds of information and interesting facts about Bremen. The official city portal of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen has existed for more than 20 years and was managed by bremen.online GmbH from 2003. The service company has been integrated into WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH as a department since 2015.
Bremen Online is editorially responsible for the topics that can currently be called up on bremen.eu as well as for the advertisements and products. In addition, it is responsible for the technical platform bremen.de and the trouble-free operation of the portal functions.
The service offers of the city state are summarised in the topic area "
Citizen Service
" and in the topic portal "
State of Bremen
". Citizens can quickly and clearly find administrative services and information on authorities and departments in the service portal. The services of the individual city and state authorities are coordinated by the
Senator for Finance
of the State of Bremen.
The Bremen Online team also looks after the City of Bremen's presence in the social networks. Whether
Facebook
,
Instagram
,
Tiktok
,
Youtube
or
Pinterest
- on these platforms Bremen Online shows the beautiful sides of the city and informs about events from Bremen.
Development of the City Portal
bremen.de has been on the net since 1996. The technical and content concept was developed by the Telecommunications Research Group headed by Prof. Dr. Herbert Kubicek from the
University of Bremen
. Since 2003, the city portal has been maintained by bremen.online GmbH, a service company of the City of Bremen, and has been continuously developed and expanded since then. In addition to coordinating the sub-editors and providing technical support, bremen.online GmbH was also responsible for marketing the site. The
Senator for Finance
was responsible for the technical platform and the administration section editorial office. In 2015, bremen.online became a department of
WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH
.
Bike Hire Outlets - Cycling in Bremen
Bike Hire Outlets
Want to rent a bike spontaneously and easily? There are several possibilities in Bremen. Whether you need a simple bike to get from A to B or want to transport things with a cargo bike, you'll find the right provider in our overview! At the same time, you can help avoid traffic jams and improve air quality. You can now also rent E-Bikes.
Book now
Bike Hire
Bike Hire
Book your Bike Directly Online via Bremen Tourismus
Mobile With The WK-Bike
Station-Based Bike Hire in Bremen.
A bike hire system with 40 fixed stations in Bremen - that's what the Weser Kurier offers in cooperation with nextbike! And this is how it works: Simply download the app, scan the QR code on the WK bike or enter the corresponding bike number, the bike lock opens and you can start cycling. Borrow the
WK-B
ike
as you wish and return it within the Flexzone, even away from stations.
Es gibt viele Stationen, an denen man sich das WK-Bike ausleihen kann.
MyFiets At The Main Station
Bike Hire, Service and Sales at Bremen Central Station.
The
MyFiets
hire service offers flexible options: just for a few hours, by the day, for weeks or months. Larger groups will also find what they are looking for here. The range includes city bikes in eco, basic and premium versions, longtail cargo bikes and e-bikes. Accessories such as child seats and helmets are also available. Bookings can be made
online
, by e-mail at buchung@myfiets.de, by telephone on 0421 40 88 49 84 or on site.
More Rental Options
You can hire a bike by the day from a number of Bremen bike dealers or a courier service. In addition to city bikes, you can also hire a tandem, a rickshaw, cargo bikes, pedelecs or even lovingly refurbished folding bikes from the 70s and 80s!
Cargo Bike Sharing
Fietje
Free Cargo Bike Hire Bremen
With the "Fietje" cargo bikes, you can transport larger loads quickly and easily through Bremen. The free cargo bike project of the
ADFC Bremen
is sponsored by the
Senator for Building, Mobility and Urban Development
and kindly supported by Bremen Bike It!
The Fietje cargo bikes are available from various partners in different parts of the city and can be borrowed after prior registration and subsequent booking with a code word and ID card. Various bikes from the Bakfiets and Velo Lab brands are in use. Find out more at
www.fietje-lastenrad.de.
Lastenwalli
A Cargo Bike for (W)ALLE
The free cargo bike project "Lastenwalli" provides the district of Walle with a free cargo bike hire service. The volunteer-run project operates two cargo bikes that can be hired from two different hire stations in Walle: Bar Hart Backbord and Zweirad Dutschke. The Lastenwalli can be booked at
www.lastenwalli.de
.
Gröpelingen bringt`s
Free Cargo Bike Hire in Gröpelingen.
The E-Cargo bike hire service offers Gröpelingen residents, private individuals and businesses the opportunity to try out a more sustainable transport alternative. The cargo bike is available for hire from
Zweirad Lindenhof
and can be registered and hired via the MOQO app
(portal.moqo.de
). It is part of a pilot project with the aim of acquiring a small fleet of cargo bikes for the district.
Flotter Laster
Cargo Bike Hire Hemelingen
Hemelingen also offers its residents and businesses a free hire cargo bike: the Flotten Laster ohne Zaster. The e-cargo bike, a Pfautec transport bike, can be booked at
lastenrad-hemelingen.de
and is available at the Hemelingen district marketing centre at Godehartstraße 3.
Cargo Bikes from Klimazone Bremen-Findorff e.V.
Load Wheel Rental for Findorff
The Findorf district centre Klimazone Bremen-Findorff e.V. lends out two Baboo cargo bikes to anyone who wants to use them for short-term trips. Members of Klimazone Bremen-Findorff e.V. can borrow them free of charge, non-members are asked to make a donation to maintain the service. Users must be in possession of active liability insurance in order to borrow equipment. Enquiries can be made directly on site, by email or by telephone.
Locations:
Klimazone Findorff, Münchner Straße 146, Tel: 0421 378 435 84, e-mail: kontakt@klimazone-findorff.de.
Opening hours: Usually Monday to Thursday, 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. and whenever the cargo bike is at the door.
Füllerei, Borgfelder Straße 17, Tel.: 0421 17524150, e-mail: moin@fuellerei.de.
Opening hours: Monday, Tuesday and Friday: 10:00 - 18:00, Wednesday: closed, Thursday: 10:00 - 19:00, Saturday: 10:00 - 14:00.
Pedder
Free Special Bike Hire Bremen
With the
"
Pedder" special bikes
you have maximum mobility. If you are mobility-impaired or would like to go on a bike tour with mobility-impaired people, you now have the opportunity with "Pedder" to hire suitable special bikes for yourself or others free of charge or simply to try them out. The
ADFC Bremen
project provides you with special bikes free of charge, e.g. roller bikes or two-seaters. You can simply make an appointment by phone to hire or test ride a bike and then collect your chosen bike from the relevant station.
Bicycle Station at Ellener Hof
Stadtleben Ellener Hof has a bike station with bike hire and a self-help bike workshop. Here you can easily hire wheelchair bikes, cargo bikes, racing bikes, children's bikes or pedelecs. In addition to bike hire and a self-help bike workshop, the bike station also offers other
services
.
Swapfiets - A Bike Subscription
Have you noticed the hip bikes with the blue front tyres? The Dutch start-up Swapfiets is now bringing its subscription service to the cycling city of Bremen. For a monthly fee, you get a Swaprad. The start-up ensures that it always works. In the event of damage, you can contact the service free of charge from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and receive a replacement if the damage cannot be repaired on site. If you decide to hire this bike, you can visit the Swapfiets store on the Wall. Or you can visit the
Swapfiets-Website
, register and have the bike delivered to your home, university or workplace.
Cycle Hire From Hotels
Available to hotel guests only.
Atlantic Grand Hotel Bremen
Women's bicycles, children's bicycles
Atlantic Hotel an der Galopprennbahn
Women's bicycles
Dorint Park Hotel Bremen
Women's bicycles, women's electric bicycle
Hotel Landgut Horn
Men's/women's bicycles (unisex, lower top tube), electric bikes for men/women (unisex), children's bicycles
Hotel Munte am Stadtwald - Ringhotel
Men's/women's bicycles (unisex)
Hotel Westfalia garni
Men's bicycles, women's bicycles, children's bicycles
(free of charge, no reservations)
Maritim Hotel & Congress Centrum Bremen
Men's bicycles, women's bicycles
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
Bicycles Shopping Tipps
Information and Service for Cyclists
Bike Citizens App
Culinary Bremen: Liquid Pleasures
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Culinary Bremen
Liquid Pleasures
Culinary Bremen: Liquid Pleasures
Whether you want to brew your own beer or taste fine wines, whether you're a fan of coffee, tea, spirits or fruit - our tips will help you find the right contents for your glass.
In the old trading city of Bremen, delicacies such as beer and wine were already being shipped in the late Middle Ages. Enjoyment has a particularly long tradition in the venerable Ratskeller. The cellar master poured the first fine wines here back in 1409. And beer has been brewed on the Weser since the twelfth century. And who would have thought it: every second cup of coffee drunk every day from Flensburg to Füssen comes from companies in the Hanseatic city. The first coffee house in the German-speaking world was even opened here in 1673. Enjoy for yourself: How about a wine tasting in the UNESCO World Heritage Site? Would you like to learn more about the art of roasting? Or would you like to try your hand at brewing your own beer? In Bremen, you can...
Bremen Ratskeller
600 years of tradition, 650 German wines, grand hall with ornate wine barrels & columns, vaulted cellar, speciality Bremen fare.
Brewery Culture
Beer has been brewed in Bremen since the 12th century. Experience world brands and a thriving craft beer scene.
Coffee Culture
in Bremen
Tea from Bremen
Craft Beer Event at the Fisch & Feines Fair
Bottle Market at the Christmas & More Fair
You might also be interested in...
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times in the Hanseatic City.
Cocktailbars
Tips for a fruity, creamy or unique cocktail experience
Iconic Pubs
The right pub for every taste!
Green Bremen
Home
Living
Green Bremen
Green Bremen
Discover the green diversity in Bremen and the surrounding areas
You want to enjoy a cool swim in the lake, relax in the sun on the sandy beach, discover the green forests and meadows in the Hanseatic city or simply get out into the fresh Bremen air? No problem, because Bremen's nature offers the right spot for relaxation for every taste. We present some tips on where to spend a relaxing or action-packed day in nature!
Through Nature
2,362 hectares of Bremen's urban area are green. That's why you don't have to look far to find a green spot to relax. The Bürgerpark, the Wallanlagen or the Osterdeich are only a stone's throw away from Bremen city centre and can be reached quickly on foot or by bike. Especially in the summer, many Bremen residents come here to spend time outdoors or by the water. Thanks to the proximity of the Lesum and Weser rivers, there are also several dikes in our Hanseatic city where you can take a leisurely stroll. We have compiled an overview of spots in the countryside for you.
By the Water
Relax on a fine sandy beach, unwind at the Stadtwaldsee lake or let the sea air waft around your nose - Bremen is not known as a city by the water for nothing. Find out here where you can cool off on a hot day or enjoy the great maritime view! And if that's not enough: Bremerhaven and the sea are only an hour's drive away.
Out in the Fresh Air
Would you like to discover nature on a leisurely hike, stroll along the waterfront or play a game of mini-golf? In Bremen there are many activities you can do in the fresh air. We've put together a few tips for you that won't leave you bored. Even beyond the city limits, there are a number of destinations for an excursion into nature!
You might also be interested in...
Must-See Attractions
24-Hour Bike Hire
Cycling in Bremen
Activities
We've put together a number of suggestions on how to spend your day.
Culinary Bremen
Good food and good times
Steigenberger Hotel Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
An entire area in transition - experience a harbour district rich in tradition, anchored in the present and facing towards the future!
Überseestadt, where once ships passed by and cargo was unloaded, is a new addition to Bremen’s cityscape. Following the gradual decline of the maritime economy, a new vibrant and innovative quarter has been taking shape over recent years.
Lots of Variety in Überseestadt
In Überseestadt, newly revitalised, huge old warehouses made of red brick stand in exciting contrast to modern architecture. A mix that couldn't be more diverse in its use. Creative and innovative start-ups work next door to traditional companies from the maritime industry. Moreover numerous parks and outdoor facilities invite you to relax or be active outside. Here you'll also find creative artists and manufacturers, who have turned their passion into a profession. The gastronomic offer ranging from cafés to restaurants is just as diverse as the choice of housing, which provides homes for a variety of people, from socially financed housing to high-priced lofts. All of this takes place in front of the magnificent scenery of the Weser and its harbour basins.
Book now
Town Musicians Express
Town Musicians Express
Drive along the Weser to Überseestadt.
One of the Largest Urban Development Projects in Europe
In 2000, the Bremen Senate laid the foundation for this exciting development by approving the concept for the restructuring of the old port areas. Since then, Überseestadt has been in a constant state of transformation - numerous
projects
have already been implemented, in many places construction and work is currently in progress, while elsewhere areas are still waiting for their future use. The designs always include unbuilt green and open spaces. In this way, many attractions have already been created in Überseestadt that not only please the residents, but also attract visitors from all over Bremen to the quarter.
Waller Sand and Molenturm
One example for the many projects is the Waller Sand, a beach at the turning basin in the north-west of Überseestadt. Where until a few years ago a barren stone landscape sat, an inviting and varied leisure and local recreation area was created. Overlooking the mighty grain transport facility, you can enjoy the beach feeling, created by a water playground, volleyball courts and maritime dune landscapes. However, bathing is not allowed because of the shipping traffic. A small, lovingly planted walkway leads you directly to the pretty Molenturm - one of the city's most popular viewpoints and photo spots, which offers you a perfect view of the sunset over the Weser when the weather is right.
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
The Überseeinsel - The Überseestadt Continues to Grow
The Überseeinsel, located at the entrance to Überseestadt and thus in the immediate vicinity of Bremen's city centre, is set to become a crowd-puller similar to the Waller Sand. Planned together with citizens, the former Kellogg site is to become a green urban quarter with little car traffic, which will continue the diverse mix of uses in Überseestadt and, equipped with a promenade, green spaces and a so-called sun catcher's bay, will certainly be the destination of many visitors.
Die Gemüsewerft auf der Überseeinsel
Strolling around the Europahafen
Not far from the Überseeinsel, the Europahafen is already a meeting place for all those who want to enjoy the maritime atmosphere as well as the exciting combination of tradition and modernity. Whether you take a stroll, sit on one of the outdoor terraces of the local restaurants or bring along an after-work beer - the Europahafen is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy the beautiful view of Bremen's lifeline.
Moreover new buildings are currently being built at the head of the Europahafen that will shape the city's skyline just as many buildings in the Überseestadt already have. The Weser Tower stands out among these buildings - after all, the skyscraper designed by architect Helmut Jahn is Bremen's tallest office building.
Port Economy in the Midst of New Utilisation Concepts
While all these exciting innovations are taking place, the busy operations of historically grown commercial and port structures in Überseestadt also continue. In the timber, factory and grain harbour, interested visitors can still observe large seagoing ships loading and unloading. It is still a logistical centre for cargo ships. Mainly animal food, grain, flour and frozen products are handled here, rarely also containers.
Blick über die Weser auf den Hafen
A Creative Environment for the Finest Craftsmanship
In the midst of all the innovative buildings, ideas and projects in Überseestadt, numerous passionate producers have found the right environment for their very special manufactories. Birgitta Schulze van Loon distils and produces fine spirits directly on site at the Europahafen with her brand "
Piekfeine Brände
". Handmade Elisen gingerbread is on the menu at the glass gingerbread factory of
Manke & Coldewey
. On the Überseeinsel, the makers of the "Hopfenfänger" beer have dedicated themselves to the art of brewing at the
Bremer Braumanufaktur
. At both
Lloyd Coffee
and
Cross Coffee
, everything revolves around the coffee bean. World-famous trophies such as the Champions League trophy are made by
Koch & Bergfeld Corpus Silbermanufaktur
.
Culture and Leisure
The contrast-filled Überseestadt is definitely worth a visit. Not least because you will find an exciting range of cultural and fun activities here that you should definitely explore. In Speicher XI, for example, the
Hafenmuseum
and the
Speicherbühne
have found a creative environment for their work. The
GOP Varieté Theatre
has built its own stage at the southern end of the quarter, while the
Hafen Revue Theatre
has taken up residence in an existing building. Right next door, the
HafenRummel
awaits you with an 11-station game trail set in the harbour ambience of the 1950s. The
SchwarzLichtHof
, an indoor mini-golf course, invites you to play in the dark and under black light. Fans of oldtimer cars should definitely check out the Centre for Automotive Culture and Mobility in
Schuppen Eins
. Skate and sports enthusiasts will find their personal paradise in Überseepark.
You might also be interested in...
Lloyd Caffee
Hafenmuseum
Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Schlachte Embankment Bremen
Dolce Vita in the far north? Definitely! The sweet life awaits you at Schlachte - Bremen's gastro hotspot and promenade on the Weser.
The Schlachte - located in the heart of Bremen directly along the Weser - has seen a lot in its 800-year history and has displayed many different faces. As a former waterfront harbour, it has been transformed into today's maritime gastronomic mile with numerous restaurants, bars and pubs. Stroll along the Weser and enjoy one of the many local beer gardens.
Summer-Feeling and Relaxation
Especially during summer, the Schlachte is a popular get-together for Bremen residents and visitors of all generations. The first Sunday in March is traditionally the opening of the season for the summer gardens and beer gardens on the Schlachte. From here and also during walks up to the Osterdeich or in the direction of
Überseestadt
, you can enjoy the wonderful atmosphere on the Weser. You can let your gaze wander over the river and have a great view of the many adjacent
ships
, such as the legendary
Alexander von Humboldt
.
Impressions of the Schlachte
Magical Winter
Even in the cold season, the Schlachte does not lose its very special charm: in December, the annual Schlachte Magic casts its wintry and mystical spell on its visitors. At this very special Christmas market you can expect treats, arts and crafts, jugglers, pure entertainment and a very magical atmosphere. As dusk falls, the historical maritime medieval market is bathed in atmospheric blue light. And the adjacent ships will also shine in festive lighting. You can hear the vendors haggling over every penny, while the scent of spices, sweet and savoury food tickles your nostrils and mead, mocha or hot apples warm your heart in the freezing temperatures.
The Christmas Market
The Schlachte - Past and Present
The term "Schlachte", first mentioned in a document in 1250, goes back to the Low German word "Slait" and referres to the pile-like structures used to reinforce the banks of the Weser in the 13th century. For many centuries, maritime trade flourished and even in old harbour times there were many taverns and hostels on the Schlachte. They were mainly frequented by the dock workers and served as a meeting place for wages until the increasing silting up of the Middle and Lower Weser put an end to the hustle and bustle at the riverside harbour in the late 19th century. It was not until Expo 2000 that the Schlachte was completely redesigned. A great fortune for the people of the city and its visitors, who can now enjoy the maritime flair of the Weser promenade to the full.
A Look into the Past
Old Habour Takes on New Function
Even though the days of the Schlachte as a waterfront harbour have long been numbered, the Martinianleger still goes on great journeys today: the Weser round trips enjoy great popularity. Harbour tours, "Kohl und Pinkel" tours on the water, "Weser-Bord-Partys", trips to Bremerhaven, Oldenburg or Verden - Bremen and the surrounding area can be easily explored by water. And if you're planning a leisurely
bike tour
afterwards, you can simply take your bike along on many tours.
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
Fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm.
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Maritime Bremen
Ships on the Weser
Trips and tours on boats and ships
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Maritime Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
Überseestadt and Europahafen Bremen
An entire area in transition - experience a harbour district rich in tradition, anchored in the present and facing towards the future!
Überseestadt, where once ships passed by and cargo was unloaded, is a new addition to Bremen’s cityscape. Following the gradual decline of the maritime economy, a new vibrant and innovative quarter has been taking shape over recent years.
Lots of Variety in Überseestadt
In Überseestadt, newly revitalised, huge old warehouses made of red brick stand in exciting contrast to modern architecture. A mix that couldn't be more diverse in its use. Creative and innovative start-ups work next door to traditional companies from the maritime industry. Moreover numerous parks and outdoor facilities invite you to relax or be active outside. Here you'll also find creative artists and manufacturers, who have turned their passion into a profession. The gastronomic offer ranging from cafés to restaurants is just as diverse as the choice of housing, which provides homes for a variety of people, from socially financed housing to high-priced lofts. All of this takes place in front of the magnificent scenery of the Weser and its harbour basins.
Book now
Town Musicians Express
Town Musicians Express
Drive along the Weser to Überseestadt.
One of the Largest Urban Development Projects in Europe
In 2000, the Bremen Senate laid the foundation for this exciting development by approving the concept for the restructuring of the old port areas. Since then, Überseestadt has been in a constant state of transformation - numerous
projects
have already been implemented, in many places construction and work is currently in progress, while elsewhere areas are still waiting for their future use. The designs always include unbuilt green and open spaces. In this way, many attractions have already been created in Überseestadt that not only please the residents, but also attract visitors from all over Bremen to the quarter.
Waller Sand and Molenturm
One example for the many projects is the Waller Sand, a beach at the turning basin in the north-west of Überseestadt. Where until a few years ago a barren stone landscape sat, an inviting and varied leisure and local recreation area was created. Overlooking the mighty grain transport facility, you can enjoy the beach feeling, created by a water playground, volleyball courts and maritime dune landscapes. However, bathing is not allowed because of the shipping traffic. A small, lovingly planted walkway leads you directly to the pretty Molenturm - one of the city's most popular viewpoints and photo spots, which offers you a perfect view of the sunset over the Weser when the weather is right.
Book now
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
BIKE IT! Schlachte, Werder, Übersee
The River Weser Round Tour
Book now
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
Ship Spotting on the Schlachte Embankment
The Überseeinsel - The Überseestadt Continues to Grow
The Überseeinsel, located at the entrance to Überseestadt and thus in the immediate vicinity of Bremen's city centre, is set to become a crowd-puller similar to the Waller Sand. Planned together with citizens, the former Kellogg site is to become a green urban quarter with little car traffic, which will continue the diverse mix of uses in Überseestadt and, equipped with a promenade, green spaces and a so-called sun catcher's bay, will certainly be the destination of many visitors.
Die Gemüsewerft auf der Überseeinsel
Strolling around the Europahafen
Not far from the Überseeinsel, the Europahafen is already a meeting place for all those who want to enjoy the maritime atmosphere as well as the exciting combination of tradition and modernity. Whether you take a stroll, sit on one of the outdoor terraces of the local restaurants or bring along an after-work beer - the Europahafen is a wonderful place to relax and enjoy the beautiful view of Bremen's lifeline.
Moreover new buildings are currently being built at the head of the Europahafen that will shape the city's skyline just as many buildings in the Überseestadt already have. The Weser Tower stands out among these buildings - after all, the skyscraper designed by architect Helmut Jahn is Bremen's tallest office building.
Port Economy in the Midst of New Utilisation Concepts
While all these exciting innovations are taking place, the busy operations of historically grown commercial and port structures in Überseestadt also continue. In the timber, factory and grain harbour, interested visitors can still observe large seagoing ships loading and unloading. It is still a logistical centre for cargo ships. Mainly animal food, grain, flour and frozen products are handled here, rarely also containers.
Blick über die Weser auf den Hafen
A Creative Environment for the Finest Craftsmanship
In the midst of all the innovative buildings, ideas and projects in Überseestadt, numerous passionate producers have found the right environment for their very special manufactories. Birgitta Schulze van Loon distils and produces fine spirits directly on site at the Europahafen with her brand "
Piekfeine Brände
". Handmade Elisen gingerbread is on the menu at the glass gingerbread factory of
Manke & Coldewey
. On the Überseeinsel, the makers of the "Hopfenfänger" beer have dedicated themselves to the art of brewing at the
Bremer Braumanufaktur
. At both
Lloyd Coffee
and
Cross Coffee
, everything revolves around the coffee bean. World-famous trophies such as the Champions League trophy are made by
Koch & Bergfeld Corpus Silbermanufaktur
.
Culture and Leisure
The contrast-filled Überseestadt is definitely worth a visit. Not least because you will find an exciting range of cultural and fun activities here that you should definitely explore. In Speicher XI, for example, the
Hafenmuseum
and the
Speicherbühne
have found a creative environment for their work. The
GOP Varieté Theatre
has built its own stage at the southern end of the quarter, while the
Hafen Revue Theatre
has taken up residence in an existing building. Right next door, the
HafenRummel
awaits you with an 11-station game trail set in the harbour ambience of the 1950s. The
SchwarzLichtHof
, an indoor mini-golf course, invites you to play in the dark and under black light. Fans of oldtimer cars should definitely check out the Centre for Automotive Culture and Mobility in
Schuppen Eins
. Skate and sports enthusiasts will find their personal paradise in Überseepark.
You might also be interested in...
Lloyd Caffee
Hafenmuseum
Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
We have put together a list of highlights!
Bus and Tram
Bremen is a compact city that is easy to get around.
Bremen Tourism - Service
Home
Tourism
Service
Bremen Tourism - Service
Planning to visit Bremen? Browse through what we have on offer - we will be happy to advise you on all aspects of your stay in Bremen.
How can we assist you?
We are the experts on Bremen, we know the city inside out, and we always have the most up-to-date information. We are very happy to advise you and we want to make sure you enjoy your stay in Bremen. The Bremen Tourism Department of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen is the official tourism organisation of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen. Our close cooperation with Bremen’s association of tourism service providers (Verkehrsverein der Freien Hansestadt Bremen e.V.) enables us to offer you the widest possible choice for your visit to Bremen. Benefit from our good tourist contacts and simply get in touch with us - we will be happy to help you plan your trip!
Whether it's experiences, hotels or packages - we have the right offer for you.
Customer Advisory and Sales
We are your local partner and we will help you plan your trip.
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Brochure ordering service
Travel planning made easy - choose the brochures, maps or informations you want and we will send our brochures for free.
Arrival and Useful Information
Tips for your Bremen Trip
Gift vouchers to discover Bremen
Bremen as a gift - order a voucher with the amount of your choice directly online! Either print it out at home, have it sent to you by post or combine it with a small gift from Bremen.
ERGO Travel Insurance
Our tip: Take a safe holiday - cancellation without risk. We recommend the products of our partner
ERGO Travel insurance
so that you can be reimbursed for any financial losses in the event of cancellation or interruption of your holiday due to illness, accident or unemployment - even within the family.
Citytax
The Bremen Tourism Department of the WFB arranges accommodation. The final prices for private travellers include the Bremen tourism tax (Citytax) in accordance with the Price Indication Ordinance. It is not charged for business travellers. You can find more information on the Bremen Tourism Tax (City Tax) on the
website of the Senator for Finance of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen
.
Terms & Conditions and FAQ
Here you can find our
travel conditions
.
In our
FAQ
you will find answers to the most frequently asked questions about online bookings.
Online Image Database
Here you will find a large selection of images around Bremen for press purposes and tourist use. Simply
register and start right away
!
This is Bremen
On the page
This is Bremen
you will find an overview of the city, which you are welcome to link to. You can also use the
Bremen Logo
.
Congress city of Bremen
The Bremen Convention Bureau provides information on conference facilities, supporting programmes and more.
Two cities. One state.
Information for tour operators and business connections about the sister cities Bremen and Bremerhaven.
Residing in Bremen
Home
Living
Residing
Residing in Bremen
Whatever your life circumstances are, you’ll feel right at home in Bremen! Peaceful and idyllic locations on the water are attractive to some, while lively and vibrant quarters are a must for others. Rummage through our pages for the neighborhood and housing type that’s best for you.
New in Bremen
Welcome to Bremen! Here you will find tips to help you get off to a smooth start in our Hanseatic city. You're sure to get off to a good start in your new home!
Bremen Houses
They are located in Schwachhausen, in the Viertel or in the Neustadt - the typical Old Bremen houses have long been a historical feature of Bremen's old town. Even today, the terraced houses with traditional stucco on the façades, high ceilings and antique parquet flooring are very much in demand.
One special feature of Bremen's houses is their history. During this period, from around 1850 to 1920, large tenement houses were built in cities such as Hamburg or Berlin, whereas in Bremen these were forbidden, as were backyard buildings. This is how the typical terraced houses in classicism, historicism and art nouveau, which were designed as single-family houses at the time, came into being in Bremen.
Unfortunately, some Old Bremen houses were destroyed during World War 2. Others were altered in the 1960s to remove the stucco, which was considered ugly at the time, or the high ceilings were taken down because of heating costs.
Nevertheless, many of Bremen's houses are well preserved and still characterise the cityscape. Many buildings are even listed today. In general, Bremen's houses are among the most sought-after properties in Bremen and are a popular tourist attraction as photo motifs worth seeing.
The Right District for You
Bremen's 23 districts are as varied and diverse as the people who live in them. Situated on the left or right bank of the Weser, close to the city or in a rural idyll, pulsating cultural hotspots or family-friendly neighbourhoods - in the Weser metropolis you are guaranteed to find the residential area that suits you best. You can get a first impression with our district portraits.
Bremen Town Musicians
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen Town Musicians
Bremen Town Musicians
The most well-known landmark of the Hanseatic city are the Bremen Town Musicians.
The Bremen Town Musicians are without doubt the pride and joy of the Hanseatic city. A bronze statue created by Gerhard Marcks in 1953 stands in the heart of Bremen as a tribute to the popular fairytale by the Brothers Grimm. According to the story, a donkey, a dog, a cat and a rooster set off on a journey to Bremen in search of a better life.
Where can I find the Bremen Town Musicians?
Small, but perfectly formed – this saying could have been created with the bronze statue of the Bremen Town Musicians in mind. At two metres tall, the statue of the animals by Gerhard Marcks might not be life-size, but that hasn’t diminished its popularity with locals and visitors alike. The city’s pride and joy can be found
on the left, western side of the town hall
. If you follow Schoppensteel street from the Church of Our Lady towards Domshof, you simply cannot miss the statue.
A little bit of luck
Once you have found the Bremen Town Musicians, you will notice the donkey’s shiny front legs. Touching them is meant to bring good luck, so while you’re there, you should take the opportunity to make a wish or hope for a bit of luck. But make sure that you don’t just rub one leg with only one hand, as you’ll give yourself away as a newcomer to Bremen. There is a saying in Bremen that it’s just one donkey shaking the hand of another!
The tale of the Bremen Town Musicians
The tale of the donkey, dog, cat and rooster has enthralled countless children around the world. Feel like giving it a go?
Once upon a time ...
Read more
A cosmopolitan view has a long tradition in Bremen
The Town Musicians once made their way to Bremen looking for a secure future. The hope for a good life in the beautiful Weserstadt has not only been shared by the current occupants. It has been the hope of many people who have come to Bremen from all parts of Germany and around the world since time immemorial. In the tradition of a cosmopolitan Hanseatic city, Bremen considers immigration as enrichment and has an active, welcoming culture.
Discover the most famous landmark of the Hanseatic city, the Musicians of Bremen, in an entirely new way - because, besides the bronze statue at the Rathaus, there are many other depictions of the world-famous animals.
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
You might also be interested in...
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Old quarter and Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Musikfest Bremen - Music Festival
Musikfest Bremen - Music Festival
In 2024, the Bremen Music Festival will once again enchant you with classical sounds and a very special atmosphere in Bremen's city center and at numerous other locations.
At the end of every summer, both up-and-coming and established stars of the classical music scene come together in Bremen and the surrounding area for the Musikfest. At over 30 venues throughout the northwest, a multi-faceted programme covers all eras and genres.
Where and When?
The 35th Musikfest will take place from August 17 to September 7, 2024 at over 30 venues throughout the Northwest.
Musikfest Bremen
Official Homepage
The festival Musikfest Bremen was founded in 1989 by Prof. Thomas Albert and is since then a highlight of the cultural life every August and September in the Hanseatic city and selected venues all over north-western Germany. Its continuous shifting between old and contemporary music, between orchestral and chamber music, between tradition and avant-garde leads to a multifaceted, kaleidoscopic festival-program and is likewise reflected in the invited artists. Established artists next to shooting stars and youngsters make guest appearances at the festival, with their insights into the latest developments of the international music scene for discussion. Many programs and artists constellations can only exclusively be experienced throughout Germany at the Musikfest Bremen.
Hotel offer with your ticket!
Have you booked your ticket for the music festival and are still looking for a suitable hotel offer? We offer attractive 2-day packages with accommodation, breakfast and more.
You might also be interested in...
Jazzahead! The jazz festival in Bremen
from April 24 to 27, 2025
Out and about in Bremen
Accommodation
Top Events in Bremen
Free and Outdoors
Tips for free, outdoor fun throughout the year in Bremen
Types of School in Bremen
Home
Education
School
Types of School
Types of School in Bremen
Learn about the school career in Bremen
Pupils go through a two-tier school system in Bremen during their school career. All children start school life when they enter primary school. After four years it is then a matter of deciding which secondary school your child should attend. The options are the Oberschule (upper secondary school) and the Gymnasium (grammar school). Since 2009 there has also been the option in Bremen of continuing the school career after primary school at a Werkschule (factory school). Bremen's broad educational spectrum is rounded off by numerous independent schools.
Find out about the different types of schools in Bremen and get an overview of the general education school system.
Independent Schools
Every child is different and this diversity is also reflected in Bremen's broad educational spectrum. Independent schools, for example, set different priorities.
School Guide
Are you looking for a particular school, type of school or institution in your area? You can find all schools in Bremen, sorted by type and location, in the school guide.
Weiterlesen
Regional Counselling and Support
The four Regional Counselling and Support Centres (ReBUZ) in Bremen advise parents, pupils as well as those working in schools in difficult situations.
Weiterlesen
You might also be interested in...
Universitys & Colleges
Museums and Science
Family Holidays
Life in Bremen
Bremen Tourism - Service
Home
Tourism
Service
Bremen Tourism - Service
Planning to visit Bremen? Browse through what we have on offer - we will be happy to advise you on all aspects of your stay in Bremen.
How can we assist you?
We are the experts on Bremen, we know the city inside out, and we always have the most up-to-date information. We are very happy to advise you and we want to make sure you enjoy your stay in Bremen. The Bremen Tourism Department of WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen is the official tourism organisation of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen. Our close cooperation with Bremen’s association of tourism service providers (Verkehrsverein der Freien Hansestadt Bremen e.V.) enables us to offer you the widest possible choice for your visit to Bremen. Benefit from our good tourist contacts and simply get in touch with us - we will be happy to help you plan your trip!
Whether it's experiences, hotels or packages - we have the right offer for you.
Customer Advisory and Sales
We are your local partner and we will help you plan your trip.
Tourist Information Office
Visit us in Bremen. We’re here to help every day.
Brochure ordering service
Travel planning made easy - choose the brochures, maps or informations you want and we will send our brochures for free.
Arrival and Useful Information
Tips for your Bremen Trip
Gift vouchers to discover Bremen
Bremen as a gift - order a voucher with the amount of your choice directly online! Either print it out at home, have it sent to you by post or combine it with a small gift from Bremen.
ERGO Travel Insurance
Our tip: Take a safe holiday - cancellation without risk. We recommend the products of our partner
ERGO Travel insurance
so that you can be reimbursed for any financial losses in the event of cancellation or interruption of your holiday due to illness, accident or unemployment - even within the family.
Citytax
The Bremen Tourism Department of the WFB arranges accommodation. The final prices for private travellers include the Bremen tourism tax (Citytax) in accordance with the Price Indication Ordinance. It is not charged for business travellers. You can find more information on the Bremen Tourism Tax (City Tax) on the
website of the Senator for Finance of the Free Hanseatic City of Bremen
.
Terms & Conditions and FAQ
Here you can find our
travel conditions
.
In our
FAQ
you will find answers to the most frequently asked questions about online bookings.
Online Image Database
Here you will find a large selection of images around Bremen for press purposes and tourist use. Simply
register and start right away
!
This is Bremen
On the page
This is Bremen
you will find an overview of the city, which you are welcome to link to. You can also use the
Bremen Logo
.
Congress city of Bremen
The Bremen Convention Bureau provides information on conference facilities, supporting programmes and more.
Two cities. One state.
Information for tour operators and business connections about the sister cities Bremen and Bremerhaven.
About the city guide barrier-free Bremen
About the city guide barrier-free Bremen
The
City Guide Accessible Bremen
is a database with reliable information on accessibility. More precisely: you can find out about the accessibility and usability of many facilities in the city of Bremen. The information is for everyone:
For people who live in Bremen.
For people who are guests in Bremen.
For people planning a trip to Bremen.
In the city guide you can inform yourself before visiting an institution and decide for yourself whether it is a good idea to visit and use an institution. All data and information are collected and analysed objectively - i.e. independently of personal assessments. A standardised survey and evaluation procedure has been developed for this purpose. This means that there are fixed rules:
How the facilities are surveyed.
Which data is collected.
How the data is analysed, summarised and presented.
You will find a coloured arrow as a brief assessment for each destination surveyed in the city guide. This is an initial orientation and serves as a basis for selected and particularly concise features. Important: The categorisation is not a form of grading. Here you will find all the measurements behind the arrows:
Criteria for a rough orientation
Barrier-free access and use
Largely accessible and usable
Limited accessibility and usability
Difficult to access and use
What does the dark green arrow mean?
Doors and passageways are at least 90 cm wide, relevant movement areas 150x150 cm. There are no barriers for people in wheelchairs, although doors that are difficult to open were not considered.
What does the light green arrow mean?
Doors and passageways are at least 80 cm wide, relevant manoeuvring spaces 120x120 cm. Thresholds have a maximum width of 3 cm.
What does the orange arrow mean?
Doors and passageways are at least 70 cm wide, relevant movement areas 100x100 cm. Individual steps up to 17 cm are possible.
What does the red arrow mean?
At least one barrier has been identified that is so great for almost all people in wheelchairs that the place cannot be used at all or can only be used with a great deal of assistance.
In addition to the brief assessment, each destination in a facility has a table with detailed data. For example: the width of a door, the gradient of a ramp or the manoeuvring space in front of the toilet.
More than 850 facilities have been surveyed since 2012. This is by no means all of the facilities available in Bremen. Two types of facilities in particular are surveyed for the city guide:
cultural attractions such as the cathedral and town hall, museums and Bremen's theatres. However, this group also includes the Bremen Parliament, public offices and some advice centres. These facilities are always surveyed as to whether they are accessible or not.
facilities that are of particular importance for everyday life. However, each one is not unique or without alternative. These are, for example: doctors' surgeries and other healthcare facilities, cinemas and pubs as well as public toilets. When making a selection, the main aim is to filter out from the multitude of existing offers those that are also easy to use for people who are dependent on a wheelchair (for example, pubs should have an accessible toilet).
The city guide barrier-free Bremen is part of the project and the portal of the same name "Bremen barrier-free". The office p+t planung has been commissioned by the City of Bremen with the realisation and further development of the project.
Questions and/or suggestions are always welcome -
barrierefrei@bremen.de
Bremen Ratskeller - A Look into the Vaults of the Town Hall
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen Ratskeller
Bremen Ratskeller
600 years of tradition, around 650 wines from the 13 German wine-growing regions, Bremen specialities from Knipp to Labskaus and the oldest cask wine in the country - all this awaits you in the Ratskeller Bremen. Immerse yourself in the exciting vaults beneath Bremen's town hall.
The "delicious foundation of the town hall" - Bremen's Ratskeller is not nicknamed this for nothing. The vaults below the Liebfrauenkirchhof and the Domshof not only house one of Bremen's most traditional restaurants, but also the world's largest selection of exclusively German wines. As part of Bremen's town hall, the Ratskeller is a
UNESCO World Heritage Site
and impresses with its more than 600 years of history.
A Piece of City History
There was already a municipal wine cellar in medieval Bremen. When Bremen's town hall was built in 1405, the Ratskeller was relocated to its cellars. Until 1815, only the Bremen City Council had the privilege of serving white wine in the city. Even today, only German wines are served in Bremen's Ratskeller.
Every Hall is Different
Through the entrance on the side of the town hall, you first enter the "
Historic Hall
" or "
Great Columned Hall
", with its huge 18th century "magnificent barrels" decorated with wood carvings. This vault is the oldest part of the Ratskeller, which houses parts of the building's catering facilities. It was gradually extended over the years. A guided tour through the vaults is highly recommended.
Priölken:
Six small wooden sheds for four to five people, the so-called "Priölken" (Low German for "arbour"), were set up on the south side of the hall around 1600.
Apostelkeller:
Built around 1550, the Apostelkeller houses twelve oak barrels of Rhine wines from the 18th century.
Rose cellar:
The oldest and most valuable wines in the cellar were stored here. The Rosekeller also served as a secret meeting room for the councillors. The oldest wine in the cellar, the famous Rüdesheim wine from 1653, which is also the oldest cask wine in Germany, is stored at the front of the cellar.
Senate Room:
Originally reserved for the reception of guests of the Senate, the Senate Room is now rented out by the Ratskeller.
Bacchuskeller:
The Bacchuskeller was built in 1620 as a wine storehouse. Today it is also a guest room. At the front is a barrel with a figure of the wine god Bacchus from the Baroque period.
Hauffsaal:
The Hauffsaal is also a former wine storehouse and now serves as a restaurant. It was named after the poet Wilhelm Hauff, who visited the Ratskeller in 1826.
A wine archive of inestimable value
In the past, only wines from the Rhine and Moselle were stored in the Ratskeller - today the range includes German wines from all 13 wine-growing regions. The Ratskellermeister has always watched over the stocks. A large proportion of the valuable wines - with the exception of the old Rose and Apostel wines - were lost in the post-war turmoil. Today, outstanding bottled wines from all vintages are once again archived in the Ratskeller's treasure chamber. All in all, a collection of inestimable value.
A Prominent Restaurant
Over the centuries, many well-known personalities have visited Bremen's Ratskeller. The most frequent guest was undoubtedly Kaiser Wilhelm II, who visited the cellar once a year from 1890 to 1914 for the "Kaiserfrühstück". But the Ratskeller was also very popular with artists. The poet Wilhelm Hauff even wrote a novella about his visit ("Phantasien im Bremer Ratskeller"). Other writers such as Heinrich Heine, Hoffmann von Fallersleben and Theodor Fontane as well as composers such as Johannes Brahms, Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss are also on the list of prominent guests.
Typical Bremen
In 2022, the Bremen Ratskeller won the Tourism Award in the Typical Bremen category, as it is one of Bremen's classic sights and has become an integral part of the city's tourist portfolio.
Impressions from the Bremen Ratskeller
Guided Tours through the Ratskeller
Bremen's Ratskeller is absolutely worth a visit! On a guided tour, you can find out what goes on behind the otherwise closed doors of this World Heritage Site. You can enjoy a drop or two from the extensive selection. All dates can be found at
www.ratskeller.de
.
The following tours are available for private groups:
Classic cellar tour with one wine
Cellar tour Selection with three wines
Premium cellar tour with five wines and chocolate
You can also find all information about making an appointment at
www.ratskeller.de
.
Book now
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Guided Tour of the Ratskeller
Nearby
St. Peter’s Cathedral
Town Hall and Roland Statue
UNESCO-world heritage sites in Bremen
Market Square
You might also be interested in...
Wine Merchants
Attention Wine Lovers!
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
The Tale of the Bremen Town Musicians
The Tale of the Bremen Town Musicians
A fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm (1857 version)
The world-famous fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm has been translated many times and enjoys international popularity. If you don´t want to read the Story, you can also listen to it
on this Website
.
Once upon a time there was a man who had a donkey that had been carrying sacks to the mill for many years without fail. But now the donkey's strength was running out and he was no longer fit for work. So the master thought of giving him away. But the donkey realized that his master had something bad in mind, ran away and wanted to make his way to Bremen. There, he thought, he could become a town musician...
When he had been walking for a while, he found a dog lying by the road, howling miserably. "Why are you howling like that, Packan?" asked the donkey. "Oh," he said, "because I'm old, I'm getting weaker every day and I can't go hunting any more, so my master wanted to shoot me dead. So I ran away. But how am I supposed to earn my living now?"
"I'm going to Bremen to become a town musician"
"Come with me and let me take you to the music as well! I'll play the lute and you beat the timpani," said the donkey.
The dog agreed and they walked on together. It wasn't long before they saw a cat sitting by the path with a really sad face. "What's got in your way, old beard-cleaner?" asked the donkey. "Who can be happy when you're in trouble," replied the cat. "Because I'm old now, my teeth are getting blunt and I'd rather sit behind the stove and spin than hunt around for mice, my owner wanted to drown me. I managed to sneak away, but where should I go now?"
"Come to Bremen with us!"
"You know much about night music, you can become a town musician." The cat thought that was a good idea and went along. As the three of them walked along, they passed a farmyard. The house rooster was sitting on the gate and screaming at the top of his lungs. "You´re screaming so loud, what are you up to?" asked the donkey.
"The housewife has ordered the cook to cut off my head tonight."
"Tomorrow, on Sunday, they have guests, so they want to eat me in the soup. Now I'll scream at the top of my lungs while I still can." "Well," said the donkey, "you'd better go away with us, we'll go to Bremen, you'll find something better than death anywhere. You have a good voice, and if we make music together, it will sound wonderful." The rooster liked the suggestion and they all went away together.
However, they were unable to reach the City of Bremen in one Day
In the evening, they came to a forest where they wanted to spend the night. The donkey and the dog laid down under a large tree, the cat climbed onto a branch and the rooster flew up to the top of the tree where it was safest for him.
Before he fell asleep, he looked around once more in all four directions. Then he noticed a glimmer of light. He told his companions that there must be a house nearby because he could see a light. The donkey replied: "So let's set off and go there, because the shelter here isn´t that good." The dog said that food would be alos good.
So they set off to where the light was.
Soon they saw it shimmering brighter, and it grew bigger and bigger until they came to a brightly lit robbers' house. The donkey, being the biggest, approached the window and looked in.
"What do you see, gray?" asked the rooster. "A table laid with food and drinks, and robbers sitting all around enjoying themselves!" "That would be something for us," the rooster said. The animals then thought about how they could start chasing the robbers out.
At last they found a solution. The donkey stood on the window with his front feet , the dog jumped on the donkey's back, the cat climbed on the dog, and finally the rooster flew up and sat on the cat's head. When this was done, at a signal they began to make their music: the donkey brayed, the dog barked, the cat meowed, and the cock crowed. Then they rushed through the window into the parlor, so that the panes rattled.
The robbers jumped at the horrible screams
They thought a ghost was coming in and fled out into the forest in great fear. Now they sat the four fellows down at the table and each ate to his heart's content of the food he liked best. When they had finished, they put out the light and each of them looked for a place to sleep according to his taste. The donkey lay down on the dung, the dog behind the door, the cat on the stove by the warm ashes, and the rooster flew up onto the roof. And because they were tired from their long journey, they soon fell asleep.
Riddle Fun
Lead the town musicians to the robbers' house
After midnight, the robbers saw that there were no more lights on
Everything seemed calm when the captain said: "We shouldn't have let ourselves be taken in." He sent a robber back to see if there was anyone else in the house.
The robber found everything quiet. He went into the kitchen and wanted to light a light. He saw the cat's fiery eyes and thought they were glowing coals. He held a match to it so that it would catch fire. But the cat couldn't take a back, jumped on his face and scratched him with all its might. He was terrified and wanted to run out of the back door. But the dog, who was lying there, jumped up and bit him on the leg. As the robber ran across the yard past the dung heap, the donkey gave him another good blow with his hind foot. But the rooster, who had been woken from his sleep by the noise, called down from the roof: "Cock-a-doodle-doo!"
Then the robber ran back to his captain as fast as he could
He shouted: "Oh, there's a witch in the house, she hissed at me and scratched my face with her long fingers. There's a man at the door with a knife, he stabbed me in the leg. There's a black monster in the courtyard, he hit me with a wooden club. And up on the roof, there sits the judge, who shouted: 'Bring me the rascal!´ So I made my way away."
From then on, the robbers no longer dared to enter the house.
But the four Bremen Town Musicians liked it so much that they didn't want to leave.
According to the brothers Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm
The Fairy Tale of The Bremen Town Musicians in The Original Version from 1819
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
The famous bronze sculpture.
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Sports in Bremen
Home
Living
Sports
Sports in Bremen
Sporting Goods Shops in Bremen
Equipment und expert advice for your sport
Sporting Events
Parks and Recreation
Enjoy Bremen at its most natural!
Golf Courses in and around Bremen
Swing the golf club!
Boat Rental
Whether canoes, kayaks or boards for stand up paddling - we compiled a list of rental boats in Bremen and the surrounding area.
Swimming in Bremen
Stroll and Hike
Discover Bremen by foot!
Bremen Town Musicians
Home
Tourism
Sights
Bremen Town Musicians
Bremen Town Musicians
The most well-known landmark of the Hanseatic city are the Bremen Town Musicians.
The Bremen Town Musicians are without doubt the pride and joy of the Hanseatic city. A bronze statue created by Gerhard Marcks in 1953 stands in the heart of Bremen as a tribute to the popular fairytale by the Brothers Grimm. According to the story, a donkey, a dog, a cat and a rooster set off on a journey to Bremen in search of a better life.
Where can I find the Bremen Town Musicians?
Small, but perfectly formed – this saying could have been created with the bronze statue of the Bremen Town Musicians in mind. At two metres tall, the statue of the animals by Gerhard Marcks might not be life-size, but that hasn’t diminished its popularity with locals and visitors alike. The city’s pride and joy can be found
on the left, western side of the town hall
. If you follow Schoppensteel street from the Church of Our Lady towards Domshof, you simply cannot miss the statue.
A little bit of luck
Once you have found the Bremen Town Musicians, you will notice the donkey’s shiny front legs. Touching them is meant to bring good luck, so while you’re there, you should take the opportunity to make a wish or hope for a bit of luck. But make sure that you don’t just rub one leg with only one hand, as you’ll give yourself away as a newcomer to Bremen. There is a saying in Bremen that it’s just one donkey shaking the hand of another!
The tale of the Bremen Town Musicians
The tale of the donkey, dog, cat and rooster has enthralled countless children around the world. Feel like giving it a go?
Once upon a time ...
Read more
A cosmopolitan view has a long tradition in Bremen
The Town Musicians once made their way to Bremen looking for a secure future. The hope for a good life in the beautiful Weserstadt has not only been shared by the current occupants. It has been the hope of many people who have come to Bremen from all parts of Germany and around the world since time immemorial. In the tradition of a cosmopolitan Hanseatic city, Bremen considers immigration as enrichment and has an active, welcoming culture.
Discover the most famous landmark of the Hanseatic city, the Musicians of Bremen, in an entirely new way - because, besides the bronze statue at the Rathaus, there are many other depictions of the world-famous animals.
Book now
English Guided Tour
English Guided Tour
Guided City Walk
BremenGo
Take an exciting tour with Augmented Reality
You might also be interested in...
Town Hall and Roland Statue
Schnoor Quarter
Visit Bremen's oldest district!
Böttcherstrasse
A fascinating 110 metre-long alley.
Old quarter and Schlachte Embankment
Must-See Attractions
48 Hours in Bremen
For two whole days, Bremen is your playground!
Accommodation in Bremen - Book your Overnight Stay
Home
Tourism
Booking
Accommodation
Book your Accommodation in Bremen
Discover hotels and other accommodation options
Sleep well in Bremen! There are many possibilities to stay overnight in Bremen and the surrounding area - there is something for every taste and budget. In the city of short distances, many of the houses are located in the middle of the city. This leaves more time for exciting experiences. By the way, many hotels offer free cancellation until 6 pm on the day of arrival.
Hotels in Bremen
Book your accommodation directly online with Bremen Tourismus
Package Deals
Book your perfect city break with many inclusive services
Unusual Accommodation
Are you looking for a truly unique experience? We've picked out some very unique accommodation for you.
Hotels, holiday apartments and and more at a glance
In our accommodation search you will find a lot of accommodations: From luxury hotels to budget hostels, from rooms in the city to holiday apartments in the country. Apartments, guesthouses, family rooms - everyone can find their dream accommodation here.
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
Guided Tours
Top Events
Bremen - en överblick
Bremen - en överblick
Hitta all information du behöver för att planera din resa. Boka boende och upplevelser och låt dig inspireras!
Redan
stadsmusikanterna
visste att livet är fantastiskt i Bremen! Vid det här laget är det 200 år sedan åsnan, hunden, katten och tuppen gav sig av tillsammans. Målet var storstaden vid floden Weser. De skulle få rätt, Bremen, tillsammans med Bremerhaven Tysklands minsta delstat, är en livlig metropol full av charm. Här möter traditioner det moderna, urban livskvalitet den nordtyska gemytligheten. Bremen är staden där det är nära till allt. Ingen annanstans är historia, kultur och livsstil så tätt sammanvävt som här, ofta bara en promenad bort. Ditresa med flyg sparar mycket tid. Från flygplatsen in i stan tar de bara elva minuter med spårvagn. Upptäck spåren efter sagans stadsmusikanter och den trivsamma stämningen i Bremen!
I stadens hjärta
Stadens puls slår kring det historiska
torget
. Med blicken mot
domkyrkan St. Petri
står här stenstatyn
Roland
, Bremens självständighetssymbol. Tillsammans med det praktfulla
rådhuset
hör den till UNESCO:s världsarv. Direkt bredvid lockar
stadsmusikanterna
att ta ett minnesfoto. Längs med
Böttcherstraße
, arkitektonisk höjdpunkt full av överraskningar, kommer man till
strandpromenaden Schlachte
. Med något uppfriskande att dricka i handen och med blicken mot floden Weser som glittrar i solnedgången – det är verkligen semesterstämning! Och förresten, världsberömda
Alexander von Humboldt
, känd från tyska TV-reklamen, ligger för ankar här och lockar som restaurang- och hotellfartyg. Från Schlachte är det bara några få steg till
Schnoor
, de medeltida kvarteren med sina trånga gränder och charmiga små hus.
Ett paradis för stora och små upptäckare
Är det en val, en mussla eller en pistasch? Åsikterna går isär om utseendet på
Universum i Bremen
– i det interaktiva vetenskapscentret finns 250 exponat på temana teknik, människa och natur. Överhuvudtaget bjuder Bremen på en enorm variation för små och stora upptäckare: I
botanika
med parken runt omkring blommar världens näst största rhododendronsamling, på
Übersee-museum
reser vetgiriga till fjärran kontinenter och
Airbus-besökscentret
bjuder rymdentusiaster på inblickar i rymdens storhet. Vill man få en kick är man på rätt ställe på
terrängfordonsbanan ”The Rock!”
i närheten av världens näst största
Mercedes-fabrik
.
Konst, kultur och kuriosa
Det måste inte alltid vara Louvren eller Tate Modern, även
Bremens konsthall
är mycket väl internationellt ansedd med sina växlande utställningar. Gatufestivalen
La Strada
är färgstark när clowner, artister och dansare från hela världen förvandlar city till en enorm manege. Också
Breminalen
har många scener när 200 000 besökare strömmar till musik- och kulturfestivalen varje år på den gröna Weserstranden. Ett speciellt minnesmärke är
bunkern Valentin
i norra Bremen. Här kan man ta del av historian om över 10 000 tvångsarbetare som tvingades slita ont här under andra världskriget.
Mat och dryck av högsta klass
I hela världen känner man till Bremens gröna exportframgång med nyckelemblemet. En guidad tur genom traditionsrika
Beck's bryggeri
är därför ett måste. Men den gamla handelsstaden har ännu mer att erbjuda. Finaste Hachez-chokladen har sitt ursprung här, i
rådhuskällaren
finns ett enormt urval av utsökta viner och när vinden ligger på från rätt håll drar den läckra aromen från kafferostning genom gatorna. Bremens invånare kan det här med att äta gott, från gatukök till mästarkök. Den som har ätit lite för mycket av det goda trampar enkelt bort de överflödiga kilona. Det bästa sättet att uppleva Bremen är ändå
på cykel
, både i city eller i naturen i de lantliga omgivningarna.
Leva och uppleva
Förr stora fartyg, idag moderna byggnader. Sedan början av 2000-talet skapas i
Überseestadt
, det forna hamnområdet, en helt ny stadsdel med en blandning av bostäder, arbetsplatser, fritid och kultur. Gammalt och väletablerat är däremot livliga
Viertel
, Bremens hippa stadsdel. I de många pubarna, discona och restaurangerna samlas kreativa, studenter och andra nattsuddare. Två evenemang borde man som besökare skriva upp ordentlig i kalendern, på hösten lockar
Freimarkt
, norra Tysklands största folkfest och Bremens svar på Oktoberfesten i München. Och
julmarknaden
med
Schlachtezauber
räknas till de vackraste i hela Europa.
Boka Bremen
Önskar du en privat, guidad stadsrundvandring på ditt eget språk?
Ensam, för två personer eller i grupp? Vi hittar den perfekta guiden på diverse språk efter överenskommelse. Kontakta oss per e-post:
info@bremen-tourism.de
, eller ring på:
Nedan finns de populäraste resepaketen, komponenterna och guidade turerna. Erbjudandena finns på engelska.
Tillgänglighet i Bremen
Bremen har gjort stora ansträngningar för att säkerställa tillgängligheten.
Bremen i korthet
Hansestad med över 1200 års historia
Tysklands 11:e största stad med ca 550 000 invånare
Tysklands minsta delstat tillsammans med Bremerhaven
På 3:e plats bland Europas cykelstäder
Internationell flygplats, 11 minuter från city med spårvagn
IC/ICE-anslutning, avstånd till Hamburg/Hannover: 1 tim., Berlin: 3 tim.
Centrum för luft- och rymdfart samt bilindustri, universitetsstad, 4 högskolor och ca 50 forskningsinstitut
Utflyktsmål i närheten: sjöstaden Bremerhaven, konstnärskolonin Worpswede, Meyervarvet i Papenburg, havsön Helgoland
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Declaration of Accessibility for Bremen.eu
Home
Accessibility
Declaration of Accessibility
In the accessibility statement, we outline the status of implementation in the city portal and any connected instances. We give advice on the operating concept and enable contact with the project team in case questions or concerns arise.
Declaration of Accessibility
The Bremen Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities Act (
Bremisches Behindertengleichstellungsgesetz, BremBGG
),
Directive (EU) 2016/2102
and the
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1
have been used to create this website. The accessibility requirements are based on the Harmonised European Standard
EN 301 549
.
The basic functions (layout, navigation, site structure, mobile view) were evaluated for accessibility throughout their creation process by the web development team of the bremen.online department of the WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH by making use of the WCAG test and the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1.
Revisions are made on a constant basis during ongoing operations.
We aim to make this website as accessible as possible, regardless of technical capabilities and limitations. Therefore, we are constantly improving the user-friendliness of this webpage.
This statement was issued in August 2020 and last updated on March 19, 2021.
Feedback and Contact Details
If you encounter barriers on our webpages, please send an email with a detailed description to
barrierefreiheit@bo-bremen.de
. You may add screenshots and the complete URL as these are always helpful.
The web development department of bremen.online at WFB Wirtschaftsförderung Bremen GmbH is working on barrier-free accessibility. Our trained employees are responsible for processing the feedback messages.
The following content and operating controls are currently not providing barrier-free access
We strive to make this website as accessible as possible. Nevertheless, it is possible that certain content may not be accessible due to software updates.
With existing technology, we are able to offer barrier-free access on a large scale. However, in rare cases we are not yet able to provide complete accessibility since such content is made available to us by third parties. Due to technical or copyright reasons we are limited in presenting content in an accessible manner. However, we aim to use low-barrier technology in these cases.
The following problems are currently known:
In many cases, the color contrasts are not sufficient for the level AAA according to
section 1.4.x of the WCAG
. In rare cases, the level AA cannot be fulfilled due to the
corporate design
. Solution approaches are currently lacking, but the problem is planned to be addressed.
The subtitles for videos in silent passages are not flawless. An optimization is currently being carried out to better meet the guidelines from
section 1.2.2 of the WCAG
.
Text alternatives of the audio files for the audio guide are currently not available. This matter will be fixed in order to correspond to the requirement from
section 1.2.2 of the WCAG
.
The markup language is inconsistent with respect to words in other languages but will be fixed to meet the requirement of
section 3.1.2 of WCAG
.
Mechanisms for identifying the expanded form of abbreviations and acronyms are lacking. The issue will be fixed in order to correspond to the requirement of
section 3.1.4 of WCAG
.
Automatically rotating elements lack a highly visible feature to turn off movements. Thereby the guidelines of
section 2.2.2 of WCAG
are not complied with. The issue will be addressed.
The level of accessibility of externally supplied PDF documents is not consistent, which contradicts
various sections of the WCAG
. Together with external suppliers the problem will be addressed to ensure accessibility in the future.
The level of accessibility of third-party content ("embeds") is not consistent. As several requirements of
various sections of the WCAG
are not met, the problem will be handled.
The map applications do not provide accessibility.
Operating Instructions
You can reach the individual sections of the collapsible list by pressing the tab key. To open or close a section of the list, please press the enter key once more.
Accordion
You can access the individual sections of the accordion by pressing the tab key. To open or close an accordion section, please press the enter key.
Accessibility of Documents (particularly PDF files)
Documents and in particular PDF files are generally accessible on the website. Exceptions to this rule may be documents and PDF files that have been made available to us by third parties, which represent an additional offer or whose content is also available as an  alternative.
Content Structure
A correct semantic structure has been implemented on the website. Headings are consistently used to subdivide and better structure the web pages. We have added descriptive names to web links in order to make their function understandable. Hidden text has been added to inform you when a link opens a new window or tab in your browser.
Screen Resolution
The website is equally optimized for different resolutions and provides an optimized display for mobile devices.
Keyboard Control and Navigation
Alternatively, our web pages can be operated with the keyboard. To do so, use the following keys:
To select/deselect a control field, use the space bar.
To move forward between links, use the tab key.
To move backward between links, use the shift key and the tab key simultaneously.
To execute a command, select the corresponding button and press enter.
Downloading PDF Files
To open the offered PDF documents, a PDF reader is needed. The program can be downloaded via the Internet free of charge. Often, the web browser is able to perform this function directly.
Change Font Size, Smooth Edges of Screen Fonts, Use Own Colours and Styles
To change the display size, press and hold the Ctrl key and move the scroll wheel on the mouse, or hold down the Ctrl key and use the plus key to zoom in or the minus key to zoom out. Alternatively, you can change the font size using the browser settings. For more explanations, check the help options of your browser.
To enable font smoothing in Windows, click the search box on the taskbar and type cleartype. Select "Adjust ClearType text" from the search results. The ClearType Text Tuner should open. In a next step select the "Turn on ClearType" checkbox to enable ClearType.
Using your own style (colours, fonts) is possible via import. When using Internet Explorer, select Tools> Internet Options> Accessibility. Then select the desired checkboxes to ignore colours, font styles or font sizes. Within the same window, you can select the checkbox "Format documents using my style sheet". Then browse for your preferred style sheet and confirm your entry by clicking OK. You will then receive a choice of colours and fonts.
Search and Search Tips
You can find the full text search at the top above the red menu bar. Tips for searching:
Umlauts (ö, ä, ü) are recognized.
If you enter more than one search word, they will be "and"-linked.
There is no distinction between upper and lower case.
After a successful search you can make use of different filters to limit the results.
To search for a coherent group of words, put expressions or names in quotation marks, e.g. "Freie Hansestadt Bremen".
Forms
Accessibility is provided for online forms in order to ensure unrestricted access to make requests, perform content searches, and carry out interactions.
Images
We have added descriptive alternative text to all informative images (and images of text), while all purely decorative images (such as background images) are equipped with null alternative text to highlight that no alternative text is present.
Video Files
Videos are generally embedded via YouTube. However, accessibility cannot be guaranteed. We strive to make this content as accessible as possible by marking it accordingly. You can use the corresponding controls of the YouTube player to show or hide existing subtitles.
RSS Feed
We offer an RSS feed that provides you with important information on various subjects.
Slider
Different image content is displayed in the slider. These images rotate and are changed through a swipe effect. Operating the slider is possible with the keyboard.
Brema a colpo d'occhio
Brema a colpo d'occhio
Trovate tutte le informazioni necessarie per pianificare il vostro viaggio. Prenotate alloggi ed esperienze e lasciatevi ispirare!
Lo sapevano già i celebri
musicanti della città
: a Brema si vive alla grande! Sono passati ormai 200 anni da quando l’asino, il cane, il gatto e il gallo si misero in cammino. Destinazione: la grande città sul Weser. E il tempo ha dato loro ragione: Brema, che insieme a Bremerhaven forma il Land più piccolo della Germania, ha il fascino di una metropoli effervescente. Qui si fondono tradizione e modernità, qualità di vita urbana e intimità nordica. Brema è la città dei percorsi brevi. Da nessun’altra parte, infatti, la storia, la cultura e la vita stessa sono così interconnesse e, spesso, a soli pochi passi di distanza. L’arrivo per via aerea è particolarmente rapido: il tram, infatti, vi porterà dall’aeroporto alla città in soli undici minuti. Seguite dunque le magiche tracce dei musicanti e immergetevi nell’atmosfera accogliente di Brema!
Nel cuore della città
Il cuore pulsante della città è la storica
piazza del mercato
. Volgendo lo sguardo verso il
duomo di San Pietro
scorgerete la statua in pietra di
Rolando
, il simbolo locale dell’indipendenza. Insieme allo splendido
municipio
, è nell’elenco dei patrimoni dell'umanità dell’UNESCO. A pochi passi da lì, i
musicanti
invitano a fare una foto ricordo. Percorrendo la
Böttcherstraße
, chicca architettonica della città piena di meraviglie, si giunge alla
Schlachte
, la passeggiata lungo il fiume. Concedetevi una bibita fresca in riva al Weser che luccica alla luce del tramonto e vi sentirete subito in vacanza! A proposito: la nave
Alexander von Humbolt
, resa celebre dagli spot televisivi, è ormeggiata proprio qui e vi invita a godere del suo servizio di ristorante e hotel. A pochi passi dalla Schlachte si accede allo
Schnoor
, il quartiere medievale della città, con i suoi vicoli stretti e le casette pittoresche.
Un paradiso per grandi e piccoli esploratori
È una balena, una conchiglia o un pistacchio? La vostra attenzione sarà catturata dall’
Universum Bremen
, nel cui Science Center interattivo vi attendono oltre 250 pezzi da esposizione dedicati a tecnica, uomo e natura. Brema offre un’enorme varietà di scelta per grandi e piccoli esploratori: il
botanika
è immerso in un parco che ospita la seconda collezione di rododendri più grande del mondo, nell’
Übersee-Museum
il visitatore avido di conoscenze potrà viaggiare in continenti lontani, mentre il
centro visitatori dell’Airbus
, nell’Airportstadt, offre uno sguardo sullo spazio inesplorato agli appassionati di viaggi spaziali. Gli amanti delle emozioni forti si sentiranno perfettamente a proprio agio sul
percorso per fuoristrada “The Rock!”
, vicino alla seconda
fabbrica della Mercedes
più grande del mondo.
Arte, cultura e curiosità
Non esistono solo il Louvre o la Tate Modern: anche la Kunsthalle Bremen gode ormai di grande prestigio internazionale, grazie all’ampia varietà di mostre che ospita. Durante il festival
La Strada
, la città si anima. In questa occasione clown, artisti e ballerini provenienti da tutte le parti del mondo trasformano la città in un’arena gigantesca. Anche l’offerta della
Breminale
è molto vasta, per la gioia dei 200.000 visitatori che invadono ogni anno le verdi rive del Weser per assistere al festival della cultura e della musica. Il
Bunker Valentin
, situato a Brema Nord, è un sito commemorativo particolare. Qui è possibile rivivere l’esperienza degli oltre 10.000 prigionieri costretti a lavorare in quel luogo durante la seconda guerra mondiale.
Un piacere autentico
Brema è nota in tutto il mondo per il suo prodotto più esportato, verde e con lo stemma a forma di chiave. Una visita al
birrificio Beck's
è quindi d’obbligo. Ma l’antica città commerciale ha ancora molto da offrire. Qui è nata la cioccolata finissima Hachez, il
Ratskeller
offre un’ampissima scelta di vini pregiati e, nelle giornate ventose, le strade sono pervase dell’aroma delizioso della tostatura del caffè. Dai chioschi alle cucine dei grandi chef, è sempre un piacere gustare il bianco di Brema. E a chi si è dato troppo ai bagordi e deve smaltire qualche chilo di troppo, può montare in sella ed
esplorare in bicicletta
, sia Brema chele aree rurali che la circondano.
Vivere e sperimentare
Da ex grandi navi a costruzioni moderne: dai primi anni del 2000 l’
Überseestadt
, l’ex zona portuale, ha visto sorgere un quartiere nuovissimo caratterizzato da un misto di abitazioni, luoghi di lavoro, di cultura e di svago. Più vecchio è invece il vivace
quartiere
della movida di Brema. I numerosi bar, discoteche e ristoranti che lo costellano sono frequentati da creativi, studenti e altri nottambuli. Sono due gli eventi che i visitatori dovrebbero segnare sul proprio calendario. Uno è il
Freimarkt
, che si tiene in autunno ed è la più grande festa popolare della Germania del nord, nonché la risposta di Brema all’Oktoberfest di Monaco. L’altro è il
mercatino di Natale
che, con la sua
Schlachtezauber
, è uno dei più belli di tutta Europa.
Prenotazioni per Brema
Desiderate una visita guidata privata della città nella vostra lingua?
Da soli, in due o in gruppo? In base alle vostre esigenze individuali siamo in grado di trovare la guida ideale in diverse lingue. Contattateci per email:
info@bremen-tourism.de
oppure chiamateci al numero:
Di seguito trovate i pacchetti viaggio completi, i singoli elementi e le visite guidate più gettonati. Le proposte sono disponibili in lingua inglese.
L'accessibilità a Brema
Brema si impegna a fondo per garantire l'accessibilità.
Brema in sintesa
storica città anseatica con una storia di oltre 1.200 an
undicesima città della Germania con circa 550.000 abitanti
insieme a Bremerhaven è il più piccolo stato federato della Germania
terza città ciclabile in Europa
l’Aeroporto internazionale dista dal centro 11 minuti di tram
collegamenti IC/ICE, distanza da Amburgo/Hannover: 1 ora, Berlino: 3 ore
città aeronautica, aerospaziale e automobilistica, sede universitaria (università di eccellenza), 4 sedi universitarie e circa 50 istituti di ricerca
mete per escursioni: la città di mare Bremerhaven, il gruppo di artisti di Worpswede, Meyerwerft Papenburg, l’isola in mare aperto di Helgoland
You might also be interested in...
Top Events in Bremen
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Bremer Loch - Hole of Bremen
Home
Tourism
Sights
Legends, Traditions and Monuments
Bremer Loch - Hole of Bremen
Bremer Loch - Hole of Bremen
The underground collection box on the market square, right in front of the State Parliament.
A rather unusual underground collection box can be found on the market square in Bremen. When a coin is added, you hear one of the Bremen Town Musicians thanking you. The money goes to the Wilhelm Kaisen charity.
Make the Town Musicians Sing!
The sounds of a crowing cock, a cat's miaow, a barking dog and the loud hee-haw of a donkey can be heard to emanate from the pavement right in front of the State Parliament.
This "song" of the Bremen Town Musicians is the reward for anyone who throws a coin into the hole, which contains a rather unusual donation box. The money goes to the Wilhelm Kaisen charity, which uses it to support a range of projects for local people.
So what are you waiting for, get some change and make the Town Musicians sing!
You might also be interested in...
Bremen Town Musicians
The famous bronze sculpture.
Activities
We've put together a number of suggestions on how to spend your day.
BIKE IT! - Cycling in Bremen
Discover Bremen by bike!
BremenGo - Augmented Reality App
BremenGo - Augmented Reality App
Take an exciting tour through Bremen's old town with Augmented Reality (AR) - donkey, dog, cat and rooster are your personal tour guides!
The app BremenGo gives you a unique view of Bremen's sights. The Town Musicians come to life as animated 3D figures and accompany you on a tour through the historic Old Town - starting at the Town Musicians statue on site in Bremen. Curious? Watch the first scene beforehand or download the app directly. Have fun!
Try out the first AR scene with the Town Musicians right here!
The scene starts directly in your browser.
Download BremenGo for IOS here.
Download BremenGo for Android here.
About the app
The augmented reality tour starts at the statue of the Town Musicians right next to the town hall. The tour guides dog, donkey, cat and rooster will then lead you through the Old Town Tour, which gives you a look behind the scenes of the
popular sights
around the market square.
During the Old Town Tour, a total of five stations with AR elements, 360-degree insights, exciting information, audio stories and interactive experiences await you. You can enter the 3D robbers' hut at the
statue of the Town Musicians
, put your knowledge to the test at the Roland statue or take a look behind the façade of the magnificent town hall. Numerous other experiences await you. By the way, you can book a suitable tour via the app during the tour or afterwards. Try it out for yourself on site!
But even from home, BremenGo offers you a lot of inspiration and useful information so that you can prepare for your visit to the Hanseatic city and plan and book your trip.
And this is how you start your interactive experience:
Download the BremenGo app for iOS or Android for free
Go to the statue of the Bremen Town Musicians in Bremen
Open the app and start your tour
You might also be interested in...
Customer Advisory and Sales
We are your local partner and we will help you plan your trip.
Hotels in city centre
Audio Guide Bremen
Experience Bremen at home
City-Break Packages - Bremen Tourism
Home
Tourism
Booking
Package Deals
Bremen Tourism - Package Deals
Planning a holiday in Bremen? Here you can find attractive package deals for your visit to the Hanseatic city.
Bremen is always worth a visit. For all those who want to save money or don't want to worry about anything, a package is ideal in which other services are already included in addition to the overnight stay. This makes a city holiday particularly easy and relaxed. And that suits Bremen, the relaxed big city in the northwest of Germany.
On a city trip to Bremen, you will not only get to know the well-known sights, but also the very special sides of the city. Benefit from our experience and plan your next trip to Bremen with us. Our team will be happy to advise you by telephone on
or by e-mail at
info@bremen-tourism.de
. Stay flexible thanks to our free cancellation up to 8 days before arrival, without a deposit. We are looking forward to your visit!
Discover our package deals and book directly online
Book now
Short Trip Bremen
Short Trip Bremen
Cheap and no frills - our package with city tour and advantage voucher. Bookable for one or more nights.
Book now
City Break Bremen
City Break Bremen
Our classic get-to-know package for Bremen explorers. For two, three, four or five nights with a trip on the Weser, coffee and more.
Book now
Fun weekend break in Bremen
Fun weekend break in Bremen
Package for a fun weekend in the coffee and beer city of Bremen. Two nights with city tour, brewers' party and more.
Book now
Harbor area and old town magic
Harbor area and old town magic
From the historic charm of our World Heritage Site to the fresh breeze on the Weser - let Bremen enchant you. Ideal for groups!
Book now
Christmas time in Bremen
Christmas time in Bremen
Experience Christmas in Bremen on a short trip.
Book now
Hotel Packages
Hotel Packages
Select a deal from the different accommodation packages offered by our partner hotels.
Advice and Useful Information for your Bremen Trip
Would you like personal advice for your trip to or your stay in Bremen? Are you looking for concrete or inspiring tips? Then we from the Bremen Tourism Team are here for you. Whether in conversation or with various publications - here you are always well advised.
You might also be interested in...
Gift Vouchers - Book Directly Online
A Bremen Experience to give away, what a nice Idea!
Offers for your group trip to Bremen
Tours and Tickets
24 Hours in Bremen
Plan your day in the Hanseatic City
Kunsthalle Bremen - Art Museum
Kunsthalle Bremen - Art Museum
Masterworks from over 600 years of art history.
Marvel at over 600 years of art, as well as changing special exhibitions, at the Kunsthalle Bremen.
Kunsthalle Bremen
Website
Bremen Art Association
Founded in 1823 by the citizens of the city and one of the oldest art associations in Germany, the Kunstverein in Bremen (the Bremen Art Association) remains a private collection. The association’s collection includes outstanding works from the 14
th
century to the modern day. On permanent display are European paintings from the middle ages to the present, sculpture from the 16
th
to the 21
st
century, and an extensive graphics holding. The diverse collection includes works from masters such as Masolino and Dürer, Monet and Van Gogh, Beckmann, Cage and Paik.
Kunsthalle Bremen Permanent Exhibition
The Department of Prints and Drawings is a highlight of the museum’s collection, being one of the greatest collections of its kind in Europe, with over 200,000 hand drawings and prints.
The Kunstverein also seeks to promote current trends in the world of art. It awards the Böttcherstrasse Art Prize and organises exhibitions through its Förderkreis für Gegenwartskunst (Supporters’ Circle for Contemporary Art in the Kunstverein Bremen).
An architectural masterwork
Two new wings flank either side of the 1849 neoclassical main building, setting the older building off like a jewel. The new extensions contrast and yet harmonize with the original structure, and allow for an honest "reading" of the old and new elements of the building. An unprecedented, specially commissioned piece by the American artist James Turrell which spans over three stories, has been integrated into the new building with the title "Above-Between-Below".
Regularly changing temporary exhibitions are held in the Kunsthalle, featuring significant artists and contemporary artworks. Check the website for the current temporary exhibition.
You might also be interested in...
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Culture and Events
There's always something happening in Bremen!
Rhododendron-Park Bremen
Home
Tourism
Experiences
Parks and Recreation
Rhododendron-Park Bremen
Rhododendron-Park Bremen
A Rainbow of Blossoms
All year-round, visitors to the Rhododendron Park can enjoy unusual plants outside in the park as well as inside the greenhouse.
A Sea of Blossoms in May
The Rhododendronpark in Bremen is at its most beautiful in the merry month of May. A little tip: In some years, you can look forward to the main blossom a few weeks earlier. You can follow the progress of the blossoms on the
Rhododendronpark's Instagram channel
. There is space for over 10,000 rhododendron and azalea bushes on around 46 hectares. This makes the Rhododendron Park not only one of the most beautiful, but also one of the largest of its kind. For six weeks, magnificent colours ranging from yellow to violet to red shine between mighty beech and oak trees. Since 1937, the splendour of the blossoms can be admired daily in
Horn
.
Botanical Garden
The Botanical Garden is the jewel in the middle of the Rhododendron Park. On 3.2 hectares there is a scientifically oriented collection with over 6500 different plants from the homeland and from all over the world. The plants are arranged according to themes and provided with explanatory signs: A green encyclopaedia for strolling, discovering and learning.
Honey from the Rhododendronpark
Right next to the
botanika
, you have the opportunity to buy Bremen honey from the end of March to the end of October! The bee colonies are housed at various locations in Bremen and in the Rhododendron Park. You can buy the sweet nectar every Sunday from 11 a.m. at the sales van and otherwise also in the botanika shop.
Rhododendronpark
The "botanika
The
botanika – Bremen's world of nature discovery
is a nature experience centre that opened in 2003 in the heart of the Rhododendron Park. Consisting of a "discovery centre" and themed show greenhouses, the "botanika" invites young and old to learn about the biological diversity of our earth through interactive exhibits and vivid multimedia presentations. On an exciting expedition, visitors discover distant realms such as the fascinating mountains of the Himalayas or the rainforests of Borneo on the trail of the rhododendron. Authentically recreated landscapes promise a unique, exotic experience of nature.
You might also be interested in...
botanika - Bremen's World of Nature Discovery
Flowering Season in Rhododendronpark
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Museums and Science
Museums and Science Centers in Bremen
Find out which museums, exhibitions and places of experience are waiting for you in Bremen and where you can find them.
Places of Experience and Knowledge
Art & Design
Bremen Regional Studies, Art and Cultural History
Remembrance and Documentation
Technology, Mobility, Profession and Craft
Here you'll find all museums and places of knowledge in Bremen
Wuseum
Franz-Böhmert-Straße 1
Wilhelm Wagenfeld Haus
Am Wall 209
Weserburg
Universum® Science Center Bremen
Wiener Straße 1A
Tischlereimuseum Bremen
Köpkenstraße 18/20
Städtische Galerie im Buntentor
Buntentorsteinweg 112
Schulmuseum Bremen
Auf der Hohwisch 61-63
Overbeck- Museum
Alte Hafenstraße 30
Olbers-Planetarium
Werderstraße 73
Museum Schloß Schönebeck
Im Dorfe 3-5
Museen Böttcherstraße
Böttcherstraße 6-10
Krankenhaus Museum
Züricher Straße 40
Köksch un Qualm
Stader Landstraße 46
Haus der Wissenschaft
Sandstraße 4-5
Gerhard-Marcks-Haus
Am Wall 208
GAK
Teerhof 21
Dom-Museum Bremen im St.Petri-Dom
Sandstraße 10-12
Das Depot - Straßenbahnmuseum
Schloßparkstraße 45
Bremer Rundfunkmuseum
Findorffstraße 22-24
Altes Pumpwerk
Salzburger Straße 12
Focke Museum
Schwachhauser Heerstraße 240
Kunsthalle Bremen
Speicher XI, Hafenmuseum, Überseestadt
botanika
Deliusweg 40
Bremer Geschichtenhaus
Wüstestätte 10
Übersee-Museum
Bahnhofsplatz 13
Denkort Bunker Valentin
Rekumer Siel
You might also be interested in...
Theatre in Bremen
In Bremen there's a production for every theatre-goer.
Book now
Tours and Tickets
Tours and Tickets
for various museums and worlds of knowledge as well as suitable package tours
Top Events in Bremen at a Glance
Bremen Tourism – Newsletter
Home
Tourism
Service
Newsletter
Bremen Tourism – Newsletter
Subscribe to the Newsletter and you'll always have the information at your fingertips!
Whether you're a dyed in the wool Bremen fan, an absolute beginner or simply looking for inspiration for your next trip, the Newsletter of the department Bremen Tourism is exactly the right thing for you. There's always something going on in Bremen! Get the latest updates and insider tips about the city on the Weser, and find out about upcoming events.
Savour the Anticipation
Bremen has its own special charm in
every season
. It’s not just Bremen’s
impressive sights
that attract visitors. With its
maritime charm
,
culinary pleasures
and annual cultural
highlight events
, Bremen is always worth a visit. So savour the anticipation and start planning your next trip to the Hanseatic city now. The Newsletter gives you all the information you need to get the very best from your visit to Bremen!
You might also be interested in...
Must-See Attractions
Gift Vouchers to Discover Bremen
The perfect gift for any occasion
24 Hours in Bremen
WESERSTADION
WESERSTADION
'Green and white forever' - the home of Werder Bremen!
This footballing temple with its four iconic floodlight masts can accommodate 42,100 fans. To get to Werder Bremen's riverside stadium, the Weser Stadium, in the heart of the city, you can walk, cycle, get the tram or even travel by boat.
WESERSTADION
More Information
The Weser Stadium, home of Werder Bremen football club, is located right on the banks of the river Weser, surrounded by green spaces.
The first forerunner of the stadium was built in 1909. Since then, however, there have been repeated rebuilds, conversions and extensions. The last major reconstruction phase was from 2008 to 2011, which not only modernised the entire stadium but also created more seats. Since the renovation, the stadium has been able to supply itself with energy thanks to a photovoltaic system.
Built on the Water
It's possible to explore the stadium as part of a guided tour. Another attraction is the
Wuseum
, the Werder Bremen museum. Here, you can learn all about the development of the stadium over the years, along with the history of the club itself. Most locals follow their team's exploits closely every weekend.
Home games offer an additional attraction in the form of the Weser Stadium's own landing stage. So why not travel by boat on matchday? Take the ferry from Pier 2 via Martini-Anleger (St. Martin's quay) directly to the stadium. Alternatively, take the Sielwall ferry from the Park+Ride site on the Stadtwerder peninsula to Osterdeich. The stadium is also well within walking distance of the
city centre
, and can be reached with a short, pleasant stroll along the Weser.
Book now
Wuseum, the Werder Bremen Museum
Wuseum, the Werder Bremen Museum
At this location, you have the opportunity to delve into the stadium's evolution throughout the years, alongside the historical narrative of the club.
Book now
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. Club Museum
Tour of the Weser Stadium incl. Club Museum
Guided Tour for Groups
You might also be interested in...
Boat ride to the WESERSTADION
For those, who are interested in sports
Cycling tours, clubs and much more are waiting for you!
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
Christmas Markets
Christmas Markets in Bremen 2024
The historic Hanseatic city of Bremen is a dazzling sight in the festive period. From a World Heritage Site illuminated by shimmering lights to a mediaeval atmosphere by the water, ice skating in the north and stylish festive shopping fun - Bremen has a lot to offer when it comes to Christmas markets. Here are a few examples.
Festive lights around the World Heritage Site
The area around the Town Hall and the Roland statue (a UNESCO World Heritage Site) is transformed into a festive wonderland. With over 170 decorated stalls, the atmospheric Bremen Christmas Market is an ideal place for a leisurely browse. It is regarded as one of Germany's finest Christmas markets. The historic setting, lovingly decorated stalls and stands, and romantic Christmas lights create a very special atmosphere that attracts increasing numbers of visitors each year.
The Christmas Market
The "Schlachte-Zauber"
"Schlachte-Zauber" on the embankment of the Weser
The River Weser turns into a hive of festive activity, with boats shimmering in the blue light at the quay and the air filled with wafting aromas of smoked fish and freshly baked bread: The "Schlachte-Zauber" will take up residence on Bremen's river promenade, bringing with it a historic, wintry and maritime atmosphere.
Book now
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
A fairytale German Christmas in Bremen
Guided tour for groups
Book now
Christmas time in Bremen
Christmas time in Bremen
Travel-package for two
Bremen city centre – a magical sight!
Enjoy a leisurely stroll through the historic city centre and find perfect gifts for the whole family.
The city centre is easily accessible:
- by public transport - from the "Brill", "Domsheide", "Obernstrasse" and "Schüsselkorb" stops
- by car - following the new car-park routing system to Bremen city centre (Bremer Innenstadt) car parks.
- by coach - following our coach parking scheme
Lichter der Neustadt
Christmas market meets art and culture
Findorffer Winterdorf
Most of the merchants sell only fair trade products, and many stalls offer vegan food.
You might also be interested in...
Winter
Bremen Specialties
Discover Bremen's traditional hearty fare in restaurants and on guided tours.
Souvenirs
A piece of Bremen.
Studying in Bremen: Universities and Colleges
Home
Education
Studying
Universities and Colleges
Universities and Colleges in Bremen
Find out more about Bremen as a studying location.
A total of nine universities and colleges define Bremen as a centre of higher education. Students at four state and five private teaching institutions benefit from a diverse range of courses. The respective profiles of Bremen's universities and colleges enable students to pursue academic careers according to different models: state university studies, training at a college of applied sciences, dual studies, teaching at a private institution or distance learning.
Whether economics or natural sciences, health or technology, humanities or arts - Bremen's universities and colleges offer a wide range of subjects. Check out the overviews of all state and private universities and colleges to find out more about the orientation and courses offered by the respective institutions.
State Universities & Colleges
If you would like to find out more about the four state universities and colleges in Bremen, the following slides will give you some interesting information on the profile and range of courses offered by the respective institutions.
Private Universities & Colleges
If you are interested in the offers and orientations of Bremen's private universities and colleges, you can find information on the five possible teaching institutions here.
You might also be interested in...
Recognition of Foreign Degrees and Qualifications
Life in Bremen
Water Sports
Commerce
Museums in Bremen
Discover the wide range of museums.
Everything about Schools in Bremen
Home
Education
School
Everything about Schools in Bremen
The range of general education schools in Bremen
Pupils in Bremen have a wide range of educational opportunities at their disposal for their school career. Numerous primary schools, secondary schools, grammar schools and independent schools accompany children and young people on their way to a school-leaving certificate valid for general education schools. Find out about the individual types of school and get helpful tips on the transitions between the various stages of the school career. Learn interesting facts about inclusion as well as numerous addresses of counselling centres in all matters concerning school.
Types of School
Transitioning from KiTa to Primary School
Transitioning to Secondary School
Transition to Gymnasiale Oberstufe
(upper grammar school level)
Transition to Vocational Training
There are numerous opportunities to enter professional life after school
Compulsory School Attendance
Who actually has to go to school and for how long?
Inclusion at Schools
Tutoring
Holiday Dates
Plan, pack your suitcase and go! An overview of the school holidays in the state of Bremen is available here.
Weiterlesen
Assistance and Support
Bad grades? Problems with arithmetic, reading or writing? Or do you have other worries? At the Regional Counselling and Support Centres (ReBUZ) you will find contact people who will help you in all matters.
Weiterlesen
Schools in Bremen
Get informed with the school navigator. Here you can find all schools in the state of Bremen at a glance.
Weiterlesen
You might also be interested in...
Universitys & Colleges
Education
Life in Bremen
Barrierefreie Kriterien
Bremen accessible
Print page
Criteria for rough guidance
Entrance accessibility
Usability of rooms
What do the arrows mean?
The coloured arrows and pieces of information provided are the first navigation aids. Read all the measures and information for more detail. If none of the predefined measures are met, the destination is assigned a red arrow. Establishments that have more than 2 steps are only highlighted if they are especially important.
Entrance accessibility
fully accessible
generally accessible
limited accessibility
poor accessibility
Filtering features for the initial overview
accessible
generally
limited
Entrance
Doorway width [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of and behind doors [width x depth; cm],
including in the vestibule
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
also lower
Height of slopes/steps [cm]
0
≤ 3
≤ 17
Sets of steps (height ≤ 17 cm)
0
0
≤ 1
Incline of ramp at the entrance (≤ 2 m length) [%]
≤ 6
≤ 10
≤ 16
If both doors can be opened easily from a seated position (door handle height at a max. 1.40m, strength required ≤ 3kp),
the entire doorway width is entered.
Usability of rooms
fully accessible and usable
generally usable
limited usability
difficult to use
accessible
generally
limited
General accessibility (assessed for every room)
Narrowest door/passageway [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Height of slopes/steps [cm]
0
≤ 3
≤ 17
Sets of steps (height ≤ 17 cm)
0
0
≤ 1
Incline of ramp at the entrance (≤ 2 m length) [%]
≤ 6
≤ 10
≤ 16
If both doors can be opened easily from a seated position (door handle height at a max. 1.40m, strength required ≤ 3kp),
the entire doorway width is entered.
Rezeption
Bars/counters and kitchens
Bar height [cm]
≤ 85
≤ 105
≤ 105
Open space in front of the bar [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
fest bestuhlt
Rooms with fixed seating (such as theatres or churches)
General accessibility, see above
Narrowest passageway in the room [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Space for wheelchair users if approached directly
[width x depth; cm]
≥ 90 x 130
≥ 80 x 120
≥ 70 x 100
Space for wheelchair users if approached from the side
[width x depth; cm]
≥ 90 x 150
≥ 80 x 120
≥ 70 x 100
Open space around the location if approached directly
[width x depth; cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Open space around the location if approached from the side
[width x depth; cm]
≥ 90 x 150
≥ 80 x 120
≥ 70 x 100
variabel bestuhl
Rooms with movable seating (such as seminar rooms or guest rooms)
General accessibility, see above
Arrowest passageway in the room, as it is currently used [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Bar height [cm]
(Nur bei Selbstbedienung im Gastraum)
≤ 85
≤ 105
≤ 105
Variant 1: Room with tables and chairs,
and at least one place with a height that a wheelchair can fit below ≤ 85 cm.
Wheelchair-compatible depth ≥ 30 cm,
open space in front ≥ 120 cm (depth.)
fulfilled
fulfilled
Variant 2: Room with tables and chairs,
at least one place that can easily be accessed
by standard wheelchairs (either directly or from the side).
fulfilled
Variant 3: Room with chairs only,
and at least one space for standard wheelchairs
fulfilled
fulfilled
wc
WC
General accessibility, see above
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Narrowest passageway in the room [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of the WC [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Space to the left or right of the WC (width) [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
Hinged handrail or transfer handhold, mounted above the WC
or hanging handrail
on both sides
on at least
one side
on at least one side:
Hinged handrail or
fixed handle
Height of WC seat [cm]
46 - 48
not specified
not specified
Door opens outwards
yes
yes
kinder.wc
Children's WC
General accessibility, see above
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥150 x 150
≥120 x 120
≥100 x 100
Narrowest passageway in the room [cm]
≥90
≥80
≥70
Open space in front of the WC/changing table [cm]
≥150 x 150
≥120 x 120
≥100 x 100
(Die geringere freie Fläche ist entscheidend)
hotelzimmer + bad + wc
Hotel room with bath and WC
General accessibility, see above
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Narrowest passageway in the room [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in the room [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Open space to the right or left, next to the bed,
at a depth of at least 1.50 m
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Height of mattress, top edge of the bed [cm]
maximal 50
Narrowest passageway to the WC [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Bad/ WC
Bath/WC
Narrowest passageway in the room [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in the room [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Width of entrance to the shower [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Shower tray area [cm]
150 x 150
120 x 120
100 x 100
Shower threshold [cm]
on grade
≤ 3
≤ 3
WC
see WC
see WC
see WC
behandlungsraum
Treatment room
General accessibility, see above
Open space in front of and behind doors [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Narrowest passageway in the room [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in the room [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Open space in front of or next to the treatment chair/couch [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Height adjustable treatment chair/couch
fulfilled
fulfilled
Lowest height of treatment chair/couch [cm]
≤ 40
Foldable arms
fulfilled
fulfilled
Width of treatment couch [cm]
≥ 100
≥ 80
≥ 60
sonstiger raum
Other rooms (e.g. exhibition room, trade fair hall)
General accessibility, see above
Arrowest passageway in the room, as it is currently used [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
automat
ATM (cash machine)
Open space in front of the ATM [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Input/output height [cm]
≤ 85
≤ 95
≤ 105
Depth of input area [cm]
≤ 20
≤ 30
≤ 40
Screen information is easy to read from a seated position
fulfilled
fulfilled
Operation exclusively using PIN keypad
fulfilled
fulfilled
bahnsteig
Railway platform
General accessibility, see above
Narrowest door/passageway [cm]
≥ 140
≥ 130
≥ 120
Freie Fläche auf dem Bahnsteig [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
≥ 100 x 100
Can entire length of railway platform be used by a wheelchair user
fulfilled
fulfilled
Obstacles
Information about obstacles is included in the room assessment.
accessible
generally
limited
Aufzug/ Lift
Lift
Doorway width [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of the lift [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
less
Cabin depth [cm]
≥ 140
≥ 125
≥ 100
Cabin size when cabin is exited from the side [cm]
≥ 140 x 140
≥ 140 x 140
≥ 125 x 125
Plattformlift
Platform lift
Entrance width [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Open space in front of the platform lift [cm]
≥ 150 x 150
≥ 120 x 120
also lower
Platform can be operated by user
fulfilled
fulfilled
Platform dimensions [cm]
≥ 90 x 140
≥ 90 x 140
≥ 80 x 100
Platform dimensions if accessed from the side [cm]
≥ 120 x 140
≥ 100 x 140
≥ 90 x 100
Rampe
Ramp
Narrowest door/passageway [cm]
≥ 90
≥ 80
≥ 70
Incline [%]
≤ 6
≤ 6
≤ 10
Longest section [m]
6
6
10
Some of the arrows are assigned automatically. Differences of -5% are permitted for the space for movement. Differences of -1.5% are permitted for doorway widths/passageway widths.
Do you have any questions that have not yet been answered? Then please contact the particular establishment directly.
Print page
Jayanth Somashekaraiah , is a king from Hoskote who lived in Bremen.